ITRI 626Practical assignment 2MJ ROSIN31704948Table of FiguresIntroductionIn this report, I must modify specific parts of the error function provided until the error value goes to 0. I will research overfitting, underfitting, and tunnel vision. Underfitting is when a statistical model or machine learning algorithm is unable to recognize the underlying pattern in the data, or when it only performs well on training data but not well on testing data. So basically, a model is said to be underfitting when it is unable to both perform well on the training data and generalize to new data (Nautiyal, 2022). Nautiyal (2022) has identified four reasons for underfitting:Low variance and high bias The used training dataset’s size is insufficient The model is rather basic Training data has noise in it and hasn’t been cleansed In order to reduce underfitting, Nautiyal (2022) has identified the following techniques:Amplify model complexity Boost feature count by doing feature engineering To achieve better outcomes, increase the period of training or the number of epochs Data noise should be removed Overfitting is when a statistical model fails to produce reliable predictions on test data (Nautiyal, 2022).Nautiyal (2022) has identified four reasons for overfitting:Both volatility and bias are high The model is very intricate The size of the training data Examples of the reasons mentioned above:Figure 1 - Examples of reasons for underfitting and overfitting (Nautiyal 2022)The goal is to make a model that makes predictions with zero error. At a point between overfitting and underfitting, this condition is achieved. The model will continue to learn as time goes on, and as a result, the error will continue to decrease. The presence of noise and less valuable features will make the model more prone to overfitting if it is allowed to learn for an excessively long time. As a result, the model’s performance will decline. We will halt just before the error begins to increase in order to get a satisfactory match.Tunnel vision is adjusting the weight to reduce the error to zero. Knowing how to adjust the weight to reduce the error to zero is all about understanding the relationship between the weight and the error. In order to understand the relationship between the weight and error variables, it is important to understand how the changing in the weight variable effect the changing in the error variable (W.Trask 2019). In the previous assignment we were introduced to hot and cold learning where we experimented with the values of different variables and studies the effect it has on the error variable. We are provided with the following code:Note: I have set the minimum_error value to 0.00002.The result of this code:If we look at line 9 (error = (pred – goal_pred) ** 2), we will not use the tunnel vision strategy because it would be silly to change the goal_pred value. We can’t reduce the goal and give up. We must always keep on trying to achieve the goal. Looking at the code. What I have doneI inserted a new variable called “minimum_error” which I initialized to 0.000001. The assignment has stated that the program mustn’t run for a specified number of iterations but must run until the minimum_error is found. I have made the following changes to the code:Instead of using a for loop I used a while loop. The  program will be terminated when the error calculated in line 8 is equal to or less than the minimum_error value in line 6. The program will run until the minimum_error is found. Initialized the pred variable before the while loop.Initialized the error variable before the while loop.The code that I have written: The result of my code:As seen in the result the error value is 0.000000962544 and the prediction is 0.7990189. We can say that we reached the goal prediction and the error value obtained is very close to 0. ConclusionDuring this report I have determined the difference between underfitting and overfitting and when to use a for loop and when to use a while loop. I have seen that underfitting is not a good thing because the neural network doesn’t train enough to reach the goal prediction. I have seen that when the minimum_error value is higher the neural network doesn’t train a lot and only iterates a few times. The error value was close to 0 but the prediction value was far of. We could see that this assignment is an underfitting problem where the neural network doesn’t train enough to achieve the desired prediction value. Nautiyal (2022) has identified four reasons for underfitting, and this has helped me to identify the problem in this assignment. Nautiyal (2022) has stated the different techniques to reduce underfitting and I used the technique to increase the period of training or the number of epochs.
Investigation of project management approaches, body of knowledge, and governance frameworks used to assist project managers at successfully completing projectsMichael Joshua Rosin31704948ITRI 614B.Sc. Hons. Computer Science & Information Technology2022Potchefstroom Campus NWUSupervisor:	Prof Neels KrugerDate of submission: 16 May 2022List of tables list of figures Abstract There is a variety of project management approaches available, but none of them offer the same  benefits or strengths. While some excel in procedures and processes, others excel at cost management, soft skill development, and project management in challenging circumstances. Other project management approaches excel in communication, stakeholder management, product delivery management, risk management, and structure and governance approach adaptability. This study’s goal is to find out which project management methodologies is best applicable for the next three to five years by debating why organizations, project managers, portfolio, and a program should take notice and how they should plan for, manage, and cater to maximize all opportunities and minimize all threats associated with the project management methodologies that has been identified within this study. Introduction Project managers have seen over time that projects have common qualities that may be codified into a structural procedure, allowing them to manage projects more efficiently. Each project phase can usually be brought to a logical conclusion before the next begins, and each phase produces identifiable milestones or deliverables that serve as the beginning point for the next. At the conclusion of each phase, cost and schedule estimates, requirements, plans, and specifications should be revised and analysed, sometimes before determining whether or not to continue with the project (Charvat 2003).The effects of COVID-19 have put organizations’ capacity to deliver programs and projects to the test. Some programs and projects were able to adapt swiftly and successfully, with sponsors and managers able to switch to remote working, while others experience significant delays or even cancellations. Due to the circumstances during the pandemic, project managers must apply the best possible project management methodology, body of knowledge, and/or governance framework for a given project or program. There are different types of project management methodologies, body of knowledge frameworks, and governance frameworks used in the world such as Waterfall, Kanban, Agile, Scrumban, Critical path method, PRINCE2, eXtreme programming (XP), Critical path method, Adaptive project framework (APK), Critical chain project management, six sigma,,  Rapid application development (RAD), PMBOK, COBIT, and ITIL. While Certain project management methodologies and bodies of knowledge are customized to specific industries or sectors, other project management methodologies are strong in practically all elements of project management, and some methodologies are strong in only a few aspects. The aim of this study is to determine which project management methodologies, bodies of knowledge, and governance frameworks are best suited for certain projects for the next three to five years. Different project management methodologies, bodies of knowledge, and governance frameworks will be examined by conducting a SWOT analysis. This study will be conducted will take into consideration the requirements of internal and external clients, and the forces they represent. Due to time and spatial constraints, this research study will be focused on two project management methodologies namely Waterfall and Agile, a body of knowledge framework such as PMBOK, and a governance framework such as COBIT.Waterfall Project Management Methodology As the name indicates, the waterfall model is a sequential software development technique. The production cycle progresses progressively from one stage to the next. A series of phases must be completed one after the other (McCormick 2012). Waterfall methodology SDLCAnalysis, design, implementation, testing, and maintenance are the five steps of the Waterfall model (Bassil 2012). Analysis phaseA Software Requirements Specification is a precise and complete explanation of the behaviour of the software to be generated. All of the project’s requirements are assessed and documented in a specification document, and a feasibility study is conducted to see whether they are feasibly. Any limits or limitations that may affect the development process must be taken into account (Bassil 2012). Design phaseIt’s the problem-solving process and planning for solutions for software (Bassil 2012). The requirements derived from the analysis phase are studied to successfully develop the software solution and prepare a blueprint design. This phase aids in the specification of system requirements, hardware, and the definition of overall system architecture.Implementation phaseThe programming and deployment of business demands and design specifications into a tangible executable program, database, software component, or website is referred to as the implementation step (Bassil 2012). The programmers are involved in this phase because they take the project requirements and specifications and develop the applications. Testing phase This phase is a technique for verifying that a software solution meets the original requirements and specifications while also accomplishing its intended aim (Bassil 2012). Maintenance phaseAfter the software product has been successfully been completed, delivered, and  installed, the maintenance phase involves refining output, fixing errors, and enhancing performance and quality (Bassil 2012).StrengthsThe advantages of the waterfall methodology are the following:Requirements are explicit before development starts (Balaji and Murugaiyan 2012). Before going on to the following phase, each phase demands a certain duration to finish (Balaji and Murugaiyan 2012).It is simple to implement due to its linear model (Balaji and Murugaiyan 2012).The resources needed to put this approach into action are low (Balaji and Murugaiyan 2012).At each stage of development, appropriate documentation is followed(Balaji and Murugaiyan 2012).Errors are early detected (Amlani 2012). Requirement specification documents are helpful in the future for code modification and project enhancement (Amlani 2012).Succeeding phases are dependent on the previous phase, therefore this technique allows for project timetable control (Amlani 2012).Each phase is distinct, and team members participating in each step verify that the stage is excellent before moving on to the next (Amlani 2012).When team members are distributed across the country or countries, this method may be quite effective (Amlani 2012).The waterfall approach requires fewer resources to implement than other methods (Amlani 2012). There are no geographic boundaries which means that team members can work remotely (Amlani 2012).Weaknesses The disadvantages of the waterfall methodology are the following:Many faults within a single-phase appears after the phase has been completed, therefore it results in an unorganised system (Balaji and Murugaiyan 2012).A modification to the requirement requested by the client will not be executed during the phase team members are currently working on (Balaji and Murugaiyan 2012).There’s no turning back. Team members can go back to the previous phase once is has been completed (Amlani 2012).It can be difficult to predict the amount of time necessary for various phases, and inaccurate assumptions might cause the project to miss its deadline (Amlani 2012).The project must be redone from the beginning if changes to the waterfall procedure are necessary (Amlani 2012).Because the client keeps adding requirements to the list, the software development time and cost will increase (Amlani 2012).Except for the team members who are in the current working phase, the remainder of the phase is idle (Amlani 2012).Opportunities It will aid future endeavours. This indicates that similar programs might be developed in the future  due to appropriate documentation in waterfall models (Teamwork 2021). Threats Waterfall models are based on hardware. The Waterfall models have several flaws since it was portrayed as a damaged model (Teamwork 2021). When to use the Waterfall methodologyAccording to Teamwork (2021), the Waterfall methodology is best suited when the following occurs:The stakeholders already know what they want, and their requirements won’t change. When a project is constant and predictable, which means the project will not alter. When a project’s eventual purpose is well-defined and unlikely to alter. When not to use the Waterfall methodology According to Teamwork (2021), the Waterfall methodology mustn’t be an option to consider when the following occurs:There is a possibility that the project will alter. There are uncertainties about the project requirements. Throughout the process, continuous testing or adjustments are required. Agile (Rational Unified Process model) Project Management Methodology The capacity to move quickly is referred to as agility. The core of this software development method is an iterative and incremental method to software development. The needs and solutions were developed through collaboration among self-organising and cross functional teams. The most important part of this approach is customer happened, which is achieved through offering useful and simple software in an consistent and timely manner (McCormick 2012). Agile (Rational Unified Process model) methodology SDLCBusiness modelling, requirements, analysis and design, implementation, test, configuration and change management, project management, environment, and deployment are the nine steps of the Agile model (Khan and Beg 2013). Business modelling phase Process of studying the business and understanding the company’s requirements (Khan and Beg 2013).Requirements phaseDuring this phase, business requirements are translated into automated system behaviours (Khan and Beg 2013).Analysis and design phaseSoftware architecture is designed from the business requirements during this phase (Khan and Beg 2013).	Implementation phase Software is developed that adheres to the architecture and performs the essential functions (Khan and Beg 2013).Test phase Ensure that the needed behaviours are present and that the required behaviours are proper (Khan and Beg 2013).Configuration and change management phase Keeping track of the many versions of all the work items (Khan and Beg 2013).Project management phase During this phase schedule and resources and managed (Khan and Beg 2013).Environment phase The development environment is set up and maintained (Khan and Beg 2013).Deployment phase After the software has passed all the tests, it is launched and made available to the customer.Strengths The advantages of the agile (Rational Unified Process model) methodology are the following:This model is a complete methodology for developing software (Amlani 2012). It’s a procedure with the ability to add other documents (Amlani 2012).It adapts to changing needs in order to satisfy the software’s requirements (Amlani 2012).It facilitates the iteration process, allowing to integrate code into the development life cycle with less time and effort Development time is reduced due to reusable code (Amlani 2012).Due to a component-based architecture, debugging is easy (Amlani 2012).Weaknesses The disadvantages of the agile (Rational Unified Process model) methodology are the following:Team member must be specialists in their respective industries to use this method (Amlani 2012).The process of development is too complicated and disorderly (Amlani 2012).Integration within big projects will cause problems during the testing phase  (Amlani 2012).It’s too complicated to learn and too difficult to apply (Amlani 2012).Opportunities Iterative and incremental methodology Throughout the life cycle, every component of development, including requirements and design, is examined. There is always a chance to move in a different direction when a team stops and re-evaluates the course of a project every two weeks, therefore an agile methodology is regarded as iterative or incremental since it focuses on such repletion of work cycles (Gandhi). Inspect and adapt approach This approach is the product of the iterative agile development technique, which allows developers to significantly cut both development time and cost to market by allowing teams to gather requirements while constructing the application (Gandhi).Rapid action development By eliminating the usability constraints in traditional development, methodologies like agile and scrum may either improve or damage the quality of the user experience (Gandhi).Threats Necessary documentation with a lack of structure Various agile methods have an unstructured framework and are very prescriptive of crucial activities (Gandhi).Requires greater cultural change to adopt If the needs of one area od code vary over time, several times the same programming is required (Gandhi).Tool to understand project velocity It is impossible to develop an accurate estimate of the work effort required to provide a code because no one knows the entire requirements at the beginning of the project. Most agile techniques offer a better tool for understanding how a project works. By placing the software in the hands of the customers, agile methodologies allow for early identification of needs and project planning (Gandhi).When to use an agile methodology An agile methodology is best suited when the following occurs: When there is a possibility that a project will alter.When there are any uncertainties about the outcome of the solution.If the workflow needs to be rapid and flawless outcomes are less important than seeing rapid progress. At every stage, the companies’ stakeholders or customers need to be involved. When not to use an agile methodology An agile methodology mustn’t be an option to consider when the following occurs:A lot of documentation is required. A company lack self-motivated individuals. A predictable deliverable is required from the start.When a company must adhere to stringent timelines or deliverables. The following table illustrates the comparison between the Agile and Waterfall methodology:Table 1 A comparison between Waterfall and Agile methodologyThe Project Management Institute’s Project Management Book of Knowledge (PMI’s PMBOK) The PMBOK was developed by the Project management Institute to assure a set of project management knowledge concepts. The goal is to assist a project manager in effectively completing a project. The PMBOK is a precise framework of ten knowledge categories, broken down into activities spanning five stages or process groups of the project life cycle, that are said to cover the amount of knowledge usually regarded as good practice in project management (Matos and Lopes 2013). Five process GroupsA process group is a logical collection of project management procedures that collaborate to achieve certain project objectives (A guide to the project management body of knowledge (PMBOK guide), 2022). Project management processes are categorised by the following process groups: Initiating This process group defines project success and lay out the plan of action. The project is approved, stakeholders are identified,  the scope is defined, and a project manager is assigned. Not every project will make it through the planning stage (A guide to the project management body of knowledge (PMBOK guide), 2022). Planning The planning process group includes actions such as identifying budgets, risks, and milestones that help refine the project’s scope. Project papers are created using a planning process known as progressive elaboration (A guide to the project management body of knowledge (PMBOK guide), 2022). Executing The goal of this phase is to prepare activities and communicate with stakeholder and sponsors. Most of the budget is spent during this phase (A guide to the project management body of knowledge (PMBOK guide), 2022). Monitoring and Controlling During this phase the project’s progress and performance is tracked, regulated, and assessed (A guide to the project management body of knowledge (PMBOK guide), 2022). Closing All deliverables are finished and formally transferred at this point, documents are preserved, signed off, and authorized (A guide to the project management body of knowledge (PMBOK guide), 2022). Knowledge AreasProcess groups are classified by knowledge areas. A knowledge area is a specified area of project management that is defined by the tools, inputs, techniques, processes, outputs, and practices that make up its components (A guide to the project management body of knowledge (PMBOK guide), 2022). The knowledge areas are:Project Integration Management Multiple project management activities and processes inside this knowledge area are unified, coordinated, defined, and identified (A guide to the project management body of knowledge (PMBOK guide), 2022).Project Scope Management This knowledge area contains the methods necessary to ensure that the project contains all of the work required to successfully complete the project (A guide to the project management body of knowledge (PMBOK guide), 2022).Project Schedule Management This knowledge area includes processes for ensuring that the project is completed within a specified time frame (PMBOK guide), 2022).Project Cost ManagementThis knowledge area includes techniques for estimating, financing, monitoring, planning, budgeting, funding, and controlling expenditures in order to complete the project on schedule and on budget (A guide to the project management body of knowledge (PMBOK guide), 2022).Project Quantity ManagementIn order to meet stakeholders’ expectations, procedures for incorporating the organization’s quality policy into control, product and project quality requirements planning, and management are included (A guide to the project management body of knowledge (PMBOK guide), 2022).Project Resource Management The methods for discovering, obtaining, and managing the resources needed to effectively finish the project are included (A guide to the project management body of knowledge (PMBOK guide), 2022).Project Communications Management Procedure for collecting, producing, disseminating, managing, monitoring, storing, controlling, and retrieving are included (A guide to the project management body of knowledge (PMBOK guide), 2022).Project Risk Management This knowledge area covers risk management planning, response execution, risk monitoring, identification, analysis, and project response planning (A guide to the project management body of knowledge (PMBOK guide), 2022).Project Procurement Management Procedure for obtaining results from sources outside the project team are included (A guide to the project management body of knowledge (PMBOK guide), 2022).Project Stakeholder ManagementIncludes identifying organisations, individuals, or groups who may have an impact on or be impacted by the project (A guide to the project management body of knowledge (PMBOK guide), 2022).Benefits of PMBOKThe following advantages are available to various companies: Standardization of the project management process PMBOK essentially assists businesses in standardizing the implementation process for every project they undertake. With PMBOK, activities from various units may be examined to create standardized procedures, resulting in a more successful project management method (Erwin 2012). Easy guide to project management stepsThe PMBOK guide makes it easy for all members of the company or project management team to accomplish their duties. Members of the team can quickly complete their portion of the project using the PMBOK as a guide (Erwin 2012).Provides documentation Every step of the PMBOK contains processes and techniques that are documented. This is particularly valuable in establishing if procedures or approaches are effective in supporting the company in improving project management results  (Erwin 2012).Limitations of PMBOKThe following are the limitations of PMBOK: Generic frameworkThe fact that processes and frameworks supplied by the PMBOK technique are general. They tend to come off as overly generic and not specialized enough for some enterprises or sectors, though, because they are supposed to be relevant to numerous organizations. This might lead to some unexpected issues during project planning (Jameson 2022). PMBOK does not reward creativity Because the PMBOK is designed to be general, it focuses on efficiency and effectiveness while also assuming that most users will follow the steps outlined. This implies that if employees depart from the plan, it might cause issues for everyone else because the framework works best when it is followed precisely (Jameson 2022).PMBOK values efficiency over communication When operating a business, communication is crucial, but it is much more essential when implementing a project. The PMBOK technique emphasises efficiency and production at the expense of communication (Jameson 2022).The Control Objectives for Information and related Technology (COBIT) frameworkCOBIT is a “trusted” open standard that is gradually being used by a wide spectrum of organisations throughout the world. COBIT is perhaps the most appropriate control framework for ensuring alignment between the usage of IT and an organization’s business goals, as it focuses on the business requirement that each control objective addresses (Ridley, Young et al. 2004). COBIT frameworkCOBIT allows managers to address the control gap for technical challenges, business risks, and needs by transferring responsibility to stakeholders. This framework enables the formulation of IT control rules and best practices at all levels of the organization. It is continually updating and harmonizing other guidelines and standards (Khther and Othman 2013). Figure 1 illustrates the overall COBIT framework. Figure 1 Overall COBIT frameworkCharacteristics of the COBIT frameworkSheikhpour and Modiri (2012) have identified COBIT’s main characteristics as the following: Business-focused COBIT’s core subject is business-oriented. It is intended to be used not just by providers, auditors, IT service providers, and users, but also, and more crucially, by management and business process ownersInformation CriteriaInformation given to key business operations must meet a set of requirements, which are summarized as follows: Quality RequirementsEffectiveness: Information must be relevant and applicable to the business process and supplied in a timely, accurate, consistent, and useable wayEfficiency: Concerns the delivery of information through the most efficient utilisation of resources. Security Requirements Confidentiality: Protecting sensitive information from unauthorized exposure is a concern. Integrity: Concerns about the quality and completeness of data, as well as its validity considering company values and expectations. Availability: This refers to information being available when the business process needs it today and in the future. It also involves the protection of critical resources and associated skills. Fiduciary Requirements Compliance: Deals with following the rules, regulations, and contractual agreements that apply to the business process, such as externally imposed business requirements and internal policies. Reliability: Concerns the disclosure of relevant information to enable management to administer the organisation and fulfil its fiduciary and governance obligations. Process-OrientedCOBIT splits IT governance into 34 processes that are organised into four domains, each with a high-level control aim. The following are the domains: Plan and Organise Acquire and Implement Delivery and Support Monitor and Evaluate These domains correspond to IT’s conventional duty areas. The COBIT framework provides a standard language and reference process model for everyone in an organisation to observe and manage IT operations (Sheikhpour and Modiri 2012). Benefits of implementing the COBIT frameworkThe following are the benefits of implanting the COBIT framework:Aligns IT with organizational goalsCOBIT is a framework for ensuring that an organisation’s Information Technology is in sync with its business objectives. COBIT helps firms to connect Information Technology goals with bigger business goals, which is a difficult task (Henry 2020). Efficiency and productivity COBIT is built on generally acknowledged concepts for increasing IT efficiency and effectiveness. As a result, the same tools and approaches may be used to improve the system and process delivery across sectors and organisations of all sizes (Henry 2020).Provides governance and frameworks for IT organisations  Effective governance necessitates the organisation’s awareness of its surroundings and a focus on IT elements that support its objectives. By creating effective control mechanisms and process monitoring, COBIT allows firms to detect and mitigate IT-related risks. Because it is focused on applying an assessment metric throughout the whole business cycle, COBIT’s governance function is successful (Henry 2020).Helps organisations to comply with industry standards By implementing COBIT, a company ensures that it is not only adhering to industry standards but also that both internal and external stakeholders are improving their abilities to meet industry requirements (Henry 2020).The disadvantage of implanting the COBIT frameworkKnowledge of the COBIT structure is required before it can be utilized as a tool to aid IT governance. COBIT usage has dropped from fourteen percent in 2008 to twelve point nine percent in 2010. Using these statistics we can draw a conclusion that COBIT is difficult to implement (Zhang, le Fever et al. 2013).ConclusionThe correct project management approach may assist project managers to get the most out of their teams and elevate the project. Project management methodologies have helped many companies in succeeding in standardizing, structuring, and organizing work processes. This study has examined two different types of project management methodologies such as the Waterfall and Agile methodology, a body of knowledge framework namely PMBOK, and a governance framework namely COBIT. A SWOT analysis has been conducted for each methodology indicating the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and treats of the methodologies. Although only these two methodologies have been examined there are a lot of methodologies out there to choose from. There is no “right” project management methodology to use, a project manager’s choice on choosing the best suitable methodology depends on the industry, allocated budget, the structure of the business, roles of members, timeline flexibility, the duration of the project, stakeholder involvement, customer involvement and the resources available. By making use of a body of knowledge framework, businesses can unify project management processes across divisions and enable project managers to collaborate across enterprises using a common framework. Project managers can plan, cater, and manage projects, portfolios, and programs more efficiently by making use of a body of knowledge framework. These frameworks enable project managers to maximise all opportunities, and minimise all treats associated with the chosen project management methodology. A governance framework is also great at assists organisations with, risk management, IT strategy alignment, and regulatory compliance with business goals. Through making use of an appropriate project management methodology, a body of knowledge framework and/or a governance framework, organisations can successfully complete projects within a specific time frame while maximising all opportunities and minimising all threats.BibliographyAmlani, R. D. (2012). "Advantages and limitations of different SDLC models." International Journal of Computer Applications & Information Technology 1(3): 6-11.	Balaji, S. and M. S. Murugaiyan (2012). "Waterfall vs. V-Model vs. Agile: A comparative study on SDLC." International Journal of Information Technology and Business Management 2(1): 26-30.	Bassil, Y. (2012). "A simulation model for the waterfall software development life cycle." arXiv preprint arXiv:1205.6904 2.	Charvat, J. (2003). "Project management methodologies: selecting, implementing, and supporting methodologies and processes for projects."	Erwin, Z. (2012). "Benefits of PMBOK." Retrieved 11th May, 2022, from .	Gandhi, S. P. "SWOT Analysis of Agile Methodologies."	Henry (2020). "What are the benefits of cobit?". Retrieved 12th May, 2022, from .	Jameson, J. (2022). "3 limitations of PMBOK and how to overcome them." from .	Khan, P. and M. S. Beg (2013). Extended decision support matrix for selection of sdlc-models on traditional and agile software development projects. 2013 Third International Conference on Advanced Computing and Communication Technologies (ACCT), IEEE.	Khther, R. A. and M. Othman (2013). "Cobit framework as a guideline of effective it governance in higher education: a review." International Journal of Information Technology Convergence and Services 3(1): 21.	Matos, S. and E. Lopes (2013). "Prince2 or PMBOK–a question of choice." Procedia Technology 9: 787-794.	McCormick, M. (2012). "Waterfall vs. Agile methodology." MPCS, N/A.	Ridley, G., et al. (2004). COBIT and its Utilization: A framework from the literature. 37th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, 2004. Proceedings of the, IEEE.	Sheikhpour, R. and N. Modiri (2012). "An approach to map COBIT processes to ISO/IEC 27001 information security management controls." International Journal of Security and Its Applications 6(2): 13-28.	Teamwork (2021). "Which project management methodologies should you use?"   2022.	Zhang, S., et al. (2013). "An Examination of the Practicability of COBIT Framework and the Proposal of a COBIT-BSC Model." Journal of Economics, Business and Management 1(4): 391-395.
Most used Project Management and Software Development Methodologies in the South African IT job marketMichael Joshua Rosin31704948ITRI 614B.Sc. Hons. Computer Science & Information Technology2022Potchefstroom Campus NWUSupervisor:	Prof Neels KrugerDate of submission: 22 October 2022List of tables list of figures Abstract Various project management and software development approaches are available, but none offer the same  benefits or strengths. While some excel in procedures and processes, others excel at cost management, soft skill development, and project management in challenging circumstances. Other project management approaches excel in communication, stakeholder management, product delivery management, risk management, and structure and governance approach adaptability. This study’s goal is to highlight the most used project management and software development methodologies in the South African IT job market compared to the international IT job market. South African companies are compared in terms of the project management and software methodologies they use, the effect COVID-19 has had on these companies, and their successes and failures. Introduction Over time, project managers have seen that projects have common qualities that may be codified into a structural procedure, allowing them to manage projects more efficiently. Each project phase can usually be brought to a logical conclusion before the next begins, and each phase produces identifiable milestones or deliverables that serve as the beginning point for the next. After each phase, cost and schedule estimates, requirements, plans, and specifications should be revised and analysed, sometimes before determining whether or not to continue with the project (Charvat 2003).The effects of COVID-19 have put organisations’ capacity to deliver programs and projects to the test. Some programs and projects were able to adapt swiftly and successfully, with sponsors and managers able to switch to remote working, while others experienced significant delays or even cancellations. Due to the circumstances during the pandemic, project managers must apply the best possible project management and software development methodologies for a given project or program. There are different types of project management and software development methodologies used in the world such as Waterfall, Kanban, Agile, Scrumban, PRINCE2, eXtreme programming (XP), Adaptive project framework (APK), Critical chain project management, six sigma, DevOps, and Rapid application development (RAD). While certain project management and software development methodologies are customised to specific industries or sectors, other project management methodologies are robust in practically all elements of project management, and some methodologies are robust in only a few aspects, therefore some methodologies may be more popular than other. This study aims to determine the most used project management and software development methodologies in the South African IT job market. Different project management and software development methodologies will be examined by conducting a SWOT analysis. The research will be conducted to determine how COVID-19 has changed these businesses, what type of software projects they complete, and their successes and failures. Due to time and spatial constraints, this research study will focus on two project management methodologies namely Waterfall and Agile (Scrum), and a software development methodology namely RAD (Rapid Application Development).Waterfall Project Management Methodology As the name indicates, the waterfall model is a sequential software development technique. The production cycle progresses progressively from one stage to the next, and a series of phases must be completed one after the other (McCormick 2012). Waterfall methodology SDLCAnalysis, design, implementation, testing, and maintenance are the five steps of the Waterfall model (Bassil 2012). Figure 1 indicates the different phases of the system development life cycle of the Waterfall Methodology. Figure  - Waterfall Methodology SDLC (Balaji and Murugaiyan 2012)The different phases of the Waterfall SDLC seen in Figure 1 are described below:Analysis phaseA Software Requirements Specification is a precise and complete explanation of the behaviour of the software to be generated. All the project’s requirements are assessed and documented in a specification document, and a feasibility study is conducted to see whether they are feasible. Any limits or limitations that may affect the development process must be considered (Bassil 2012). Design phaseIt is the problem-solving process and planning for solutions for software (Bassil 2012). The requirements derived from the analysis phase are studied to develop the software solution and prepare a blueprint design successfully. This phase aids in the specification of system requirements, hardware, and the definition of overall system architecture.Implementation phaseThe programming and deployment of business demands and design specifications into a tangible executable program, database, software component, or website are referred to as the implementation step (Bassil 2012). The programmers are involved in this phase because they take the project requirements and specifications and develop the applications. Testing phase This phase is a technique for verifying that a software solution meets the original requirements and specifications while also accomplishing its intended aim (Bassil 2012). Maintenance phaseAfter the software product has been completed, delivered, and installed, the maintenance phase involves refining output, fixing errors, and enhancing performance and quality (Bassil 2012).StrengthsThe advantages of the waterfall methodology are the following:Requirements are explicit before development starts (Balaji and Murugaiyan 2012). Before going on to the following phase, each phase demands a specific duration to finish (Balaji and Murugaiyan 2012).It is simple to implement due to its linear model (Balaji and Murugaiyan 2012).The resources needed to put this approach into action are low (Balaji and Murugaiyan 2012).At each stage of development, appropriate documentation is followed(Balaji and Murugaiyan 2012).Errors are early detected (Amlani 2012). Requirement specification documents are helpful in the future for code modification and project enhancement (Amlani 2012).Succeeding phases are dependent on the previous phase. Therefore, this technique allows for project timetable control (Amlani 2012).Each phase is distinct, and team members in each step verify that the stage is excellent before moving on to the next (Amlani 2012).This method may be quite effective when team members are distributed across the country or countries (Amlani 2012).The waterfall approach requires fewer resources to implement than other methods (Amlani 2012). There are no geographic boundaries which mean that team members can work remotely (Amlani 2012).Weaknesses The disadvantages of the waterfall methodology are the following:Many faults within a single phase appear after the phase has been completed, therefore it results in an unorganised system (Balaji and Murugaiyan 2012).A modification to the requirement requested by the client will not be executed during the phase team members are currently working on (Balaji and Murugaiyan 2012).There’s no turning back. Team members can go back to the previous phase once it has been completed (Amlani 2012).It can be difficult to predict the amount of time necessary for various phases, and inaccurate assumptions might cause the project to miss its deadline (Amlani 2012).The project must be redone from the beginning if changes to the waterfall procedure are necessary (Amlani 2012).Because the client keeps adding requirements to the list, the software development time and cost will increase (Amlani 2012).Except for the team members who are in the current working phase, the remainder of the phase is idle (Amlani 2012).Opportunities It will aid future endeavors. This indicates that similar programs might be developed in the future due to appropriate documentation in waterfall models (Teamwork 2021). Threats Waterfall models are based on hardware. The Waterfall models have several flaws since it was portrayed as a damaged model (Teamwork 2021). When to use the Waterfall methodologyAccording to Teamwork (2021), the Waterfall methodology is best suited when the following occurs:The stakeholders already know what they want, and their requirements will not change. When a project is constant and predictable, the project will not alter. When a project’s eventual purpose is well-defined and unlikely to alter. When not to use the Waterfall methodology According to Teamwork (2021), the Waterfall methodology must not be an option to consider when the following occurs:There is a possibility that the project will alter. There are uncertainties about the project requirements. Throughout the process, continuous testing or adjustments are required. Agile (Scrum) Project Management Methodology The capacity to move quickly is referred to as agility. The core of this software development method is an iterative and incremental method to software development. The needs and solutions were developed through collaboration among self-organising and cross-functional teams. The most important part of this approach is customer happened, which is achieved through offering useful and simple software in a consistent and timely manner (McCormick 2012). Scrum was incorporated into the agile approach since it shares many of the same ideas. A Scrum is a team pack in which every member cooperates. It completes the project on schedule within a specific time frame and with minimal cost (Mahalakshmi and Sundararajan 2013). Agile (Scrum) methodology SDLCProduct Backlog, Sprint  Planning, The Sprint, Completed Sprint, Review, and Reap are the six steps of the Waterfall model (Bassil 2012). Figure 2 indicates the different phases of the system development life cycle of the Scrum Methodology. Figure  - Scrum Methodology SDLC (Zayat and Senvar 2020)The different phases of the Scrum SDLC seen in Figure 2 are described below:Product BacklogThe product owner makes a list of the elements from user stories and prioritises them correctly. This is accomplished by ranking the features or components that must be on the product in order of importance, then those that are less crucial, and ultimately those that are not feasible within the given period. This will guarantee the project elements’ clarity and is done based on the items’ effect, risk, and contribution to the project’s learning process for the future product (Zayat and Senvar 2020). Sprint PlanningDepending on their importance, the development team begins working with backlog items. The team initially decides how to construct it. The development team should focus on the items that are ready to be worked on rather than the level of detail at which they are currently being developed. The development team is urged to inquire about the necessary features of the product from the product owner and stakeholders at this stage (Zayat and Senvar 2020).The SprintThe developing team will now focus on the user stories that were chosen for the product’s subsequent distribution. During the planning meeting, these stories are picked from the product backlog based on priority and the anticipated work required, which should not take more than one sprint. A daily meeting is held to ensure that the sprint is proceeding according to schedule (Zayat and Senvar 2020).Completed Sprint A sprint can be finished after the work is finished and the project is prepared for delivery. At this stage, the client or the shareholders can run certain tests (Zayat and Senvar 2020).Review  A meeting is scheduled to discuss what went well and what did not during the sprint. This is crucial for the next sprints. The Scrum team often works to keep up good implementations and remove any barriers. There should be ground rules for discussions to keep the conversation on a good note (Zayat and Senvar 2020).RepeatThe same cycle keeps repeating, beginning with the items at the top of the product backlog, going through the same processes, and enhancing the procedure by learning about new ideas and refining work to achieve a high level of performance (Zayat and Senvar 2020).Strengths The advantages of the agile (Scrum) methodology are the following:It is feasible to access individual productivity through daily meetings. Every team member’s productivity increases as a result of this (Amlani 2012). Through the daily project review process, problems are discovered well in advance and can therefore be resolved quickly (Amlani 2012).Scrum may be used with any technology or programming language, but it is especially helpful for projects using new fast-moving media or web technologies (Amlani 2012).It facilitates the iteration process, allowing to integrate code into the development life cycle with less time and effort Agile scrum assists businesses in time and cost savings (Amlani 2012).It is a lightly managed strategy that demands regular meetings to update everyone on the status of the project. As a result, the progress of the project is visible (Amlani 2012).Weaknesses The disadvantages of the agile (Scrum) methodology are the following:Agile Scrum is one of the top software development methodologies because, in the absence of a clear end date, project management stakeholders will continue to press for the delivery of additional features (Amlani 2012).It will be difficult to accurately estimate project expenses and time if a task is not clearly defined. The task can be divided into many sprints in this scenario. (Amlani 2012).Only experienced team members are required for this methodology. The project cannot be finished on time if the team consists of individuals who are not experienced with using this methodology  (Amlani 2012).The project will either never be finished or will be a failure if the team members are not dedicated. (Amlani 2012).Opportunities Iterative and incremental methodology Throughout the life cycle, every component of development, including requirements and design, is examined. There is always a chance to move in a different direction when a team stops and re-evaluates the course of a project every two weeks, therefore an agile (Scrum) methodology is regarded as iterative or incremental since it focuses on such repletion of work cycles (Gandhi 2012). Inspect and adapt approach This approach is the product of the iterative agile development technique, which allows developers to significantly cut both development time and cost to market by allowing teams to gather requirements while constructing the application (Gandhi 2012). Rapid action development By eliminating the usability constraints in traditional development, methodologies like agile and scrum may either improve or damage the quality of the user experience (Gandhi 2012). Threats Necessary documentation with a lack of structure Various agile methods have an unstructured framework and are very prescriptive of crucial activities (Gandhi 2012). Requires greater cultural change to adapt If the needs of one area of code vary over time, several times the same programming is required (Gandhi 2012). Tool to understand project velocity It is impossible to develop an accurate estimate of the work effort required to provide a code because no one knows the entire requirements at the beginning of the project. Most agile techniques offer a better tool for understanding how a project works. By placing the software in the hands of the customers, agile methodologies allow for early identification of needs and project planning (Gandhi 2012). When to use an agile methodology An agile methodology is best suited when the following occurs: When there is a possibility that a project will alter.When there are any uncertainties about the outcome of the solution.If the workflow needs to be rapid and flawless outcomes are less important than seeing rapid progress. At every stage, the companies’ stakeholders or customers need to be involved. When not to use an agile methodology An agile methodology mustn’t be an option to consider when the following occurs:A lot of documentation is required. A company lack self-motivated individuals. A predictable deliverable is required from the start.When a company must adhere to stringent timelines or deliverables. The following table illustrates the comparison between the Agile and Waterfall methodology:Table 1 - A comparison between Waterfall and Agile methodologyRapid Application Development (RAD) Software Development Methodology Rapid Application Development (RAD) is a development lifecycle created to provide software solutions faster and of higher quality than those provided by a traditional lifecycle (Daud, Bakar et al. 2010). This methodology emphasises immediate feedback and rapid prototyping over extensive development and testing cycles. RAD enables developers to rapidly iterate and update software without having to start from scratch each time. This ensures that the final product is more quality focused and satisfies the needs of the end consumers (Chien 2020). Rapid Application Development (RAD) methodology SDLCDefine project requirements, Prototype, Rapid construction, and feedback, and finalise product/implementation are the four steps of the RAD model (Chien 2020). Figure 3 indicates the different phases of the system development life cycle of the RAD Methodology.Figure  - Rapid Application Development Methodology SDLC (Chien 2020)The different phases of the RAD SDLC seen in Figure 2 are described below:Define project requirementsA loosely defined set of project requirements, similar to what would be completed during project scoping in conventional development cycles, is defined by stakeholders at the start of the RAD cycle. Although this planning phase is quick and emphasises prototype iterations as having a greater priority, it is crucial to the project’s success (Chien 2020). Prototype Teams start developing the earliest models and prototypes when a project has been scoped. The objective is to quickly generate a functional design that can be shown to the customer. To make sure the client’s demands are addressed, developers and designers collaborate with clients up until the completion of the final product. As the project progresses, this stage is frequently repeated as often as required (Chien 2020).Rapid construction and feedback gathering Application development, system testing, and unit integration take place during rapid building, converting prototype and beta systems into operational models. This phase may be repeated as necessary to accommodate additions and modifications. Teams typically utilise low-code or RAD methods to develop the product faster(Chien 2020).Finalise product/implementationDevelopers handle the technical debt accumulated during early prototyping in the last stage of RAD, optimising implementation to increase stability and maintainability as they prepare the product for launch. Components are transferred to a real-world production setting where extensive testing is done to find product flaws (Chien 2020).Strengths The advantages of the Rapid Application Development (RAD) methodology are the following:With a business-focused approach, RAD tends to develop solutions more rapidly and more affordably (Amlani 2012). Enables quick system design changes in response to user requests (Amlani 2012).The final product usually matches the requirements and expectations of the user (Amlani 2012).Emphasis on key system components from the user’s perspective (Amlani 2012).Weaknesses The disadvantages of the Rapid Application Development (RAD) methodology are the following:Reusing modules in future systems is difficult (Amlani 2012).Large companies may find it challenging to manage RAD prototyping (Amlani 2012).Conflicting naming conventions and inconsistent documentation may be a violation of programming standards (Amlani 2012).Lower cost and higher speed can cause lower overall system quality (Amlani 2012).Overview of case studiesResearch has been conducted on the following South African companies. Below is a brief overview of each company. These companies will be analysed and compared to determine what project management and software development methodologies are mostly used in South African companies. BBD Software development BBD provides value by leveraging its domain experience to develop transformative solutions in any industry. Their 1000+ specialists throughout the globe take the lead in innovation to develop robust systems and procedures that are effective for any company. They provided the following services/products:Digital strategyTech and business consulting Cloud enablement Software developmentSystem IntegrationMaintenance and support UX/UIRisk toolkitAI-driven searchOrchestration and automationThe following information about BBD was captured during a questionnaire:BBD is a large company that has between 501 and 1000 employees. They make use of Agile (Scrum), Waterfall, Rapid Application Development, Prototyping, and DevOps as their Project Management Methodologies. They say there is no separation of function and duty between project management and software development methodologies. Before COVID-19 work was done on the premise, during covid employees worked from their homes, and after covid work is done on the premise. COVID-19 had the following impact on BBD:A negative impact on the way they conducted project management A positive impact on organisational productivity A positive impact on software development successCreated an enjoyable online environment during the pandemic Impacted mostly the people within software development and project managementHad an impact on governance and strategy within BBDHad an impact on technology architecture and infrastructureHelped employees build better relationships via online communicationA negative impact on securityRetro Rabbit	Retro Rabbit develops software solutions for any company. They provide specialized solutions that cultivate creativity and brilliance. They produce innovative products and provide clients with the most comprehensive information technology design solution by fusing data science, human-centered, and the most recent software development methodologies. They provided the following services/products: Mobile developmentWeb development Cloud development Artificial IntelligenceExperience design Game development The following information about Retro Rabbit was captured during a questionnaire:Retro Rabbit is a medium company that has between 101 and 500 employees. They make use of Agile (Scrum) as their Project Management Methodologies. They say there is a separation of function and duty between project management and software development methodologies. Before COVID-19 work was done on the premise, during covid employees worked from their homes, and after covid work is done online (remote). COVID-19 had the following impact on Retro Rabbit:A positive impact on the way they conducted project management A positive impact on organisational productivity A positive impact on software development successCreated an enjoyable online environment during the pandemic Impacted mostly the people within software development and project managementHad an impact on governance and strategy within Retro RabbitHad an impact on technology infrastructureHelped employees build better relationships via online communicationA negative impact on securityIntegrity Software Integrity Software was founded by Neil Patterson in 1999. Innovation in both products and services is what Integrity Software is all about. Integrity Software provides insurance management solutions built around accounting capabilities through policy and claims management, enabling the most effective and auditable financial management of the operations of their associated brokerages. Their software solution has the following features:Policy and Claims ManagementClaims ManagementInsurer rating engine integration User audit trailPolicy and Claims enquiries Fully customisable Group Policy Management with different levels of user security accessFully keyboard driven allowing for high-speed data capture The following information about Integrity Software was captured during a questionnaire:Integrity Software is a small company that has between 1 and 100 employees. They make use of Agile (Scrum) as DevOps as their Project Management Methodologies. They say there is no separation of function and duty between project management and software development methodologies. Before COVID-19 work was done on the premise, during covid employees worked from their homes, and after covid work is done online (remote). COVID-19 had the following impact on Integrity Software:A negative impact on the way they conducted project management A negative impact on organisational productivity A positive impact on software development successCreated an enjoyable online environment during the pandemic Impacted mostly the people within software development and project managementHad an impact on governance and strategy within Integrity Software Had an impact on technology infrastructure and architectureHelped employees build better relationships via online communicationA negative impact on securityDiscovery The main goals of Discovery are to improve individuals’ health and to enhance and protect their lives. By educating individuals about their health risk factors and assisting them in managing and enhancing their health, they help individuals become healthier. They provided the following services/products:Banking Health coverLife insurance Investments Car and home insurance Discovery is a huge company that has more than 1000 employees. They make use of Agile (Scrum) as their Project Management Methodologies. They say there is a separation of function and duty between project management and software development methodologies. Before COVID-19 work was done on the premise, during covid employees worked from their homes, and after covid work is done online (remote). COVID-19 had the following impact on Discovery:A positive impact on the way they conducted project management A positive impact on organisational productivity A positive impact on software development successCreated an enjoyable online environment during the pandemic Impacted mostly the people within software development and project managementHad an impact on governance and strategy within Discovery Had an impact on technology infrastructureHelped employees build better relationships via online communicationA negative impact on securitySymbioticsSymbiotics' main focus is customer development - they create solutions for their customers. They provided the following services/products:Customer Software DevelopmentMobile App Development Hosting and Cloud Enablement Co-sourcing Application Development Symbiotics is a small company that has between 1 and 100 employees. They make use of Agile (Scrum) as their Project Management Methodologies. They say there is a separation of function and duty between project management and software development methodologies. Before COVID-19 work was done on the premise, during covid employees worked from their homes, and after covid work is done online (remote). COVID-19 had the following impact on Symbiotics:A negative impact on the way they conducted project management A negative impact on organisational productivity A negative impact on software development successCreated an enjoyable online environment during the pandemic Impacted everyone in the company in the same wayHad an impact on governance and strategy within Discovery Did not have an impact on technology infrastructure and architecture Helped employees build better relationships via online communicationHad no impact on securityComparison of case studyThe following factors of each company will be compared with one another:Project management methodologies used by companies Company sizeDifference in the function and duty between the project management methodologies and software development methodologies Software development methodologies used by companies Figure 4 - Number of companies using SDMBuild better relationships via online communicationSecurity problems and how did the company counter these issuesConclusionThis study has examined two different project management methodologies such as the Agile (Scrum) and the Waterfall methodology and one software development methodology such as the Rapid Application Development (RAD). A SWOT analysis has been conducted for each methodology indicating the strengths, weaknesses, threats, and opportunities of the methodologies. Five different South African companies have been examined and research has shown that no matter how big a company is, Agile (Scrum) is the way to go for the project management methodology and Agile for the software development methodology. Three of the five companies have indicated that there is a separation of the function and duty between the project management and the software development methodology, yet they indicate that they use Agile for both the project management and the software development methodology.All companies have indicated that employees have built better relationships by using online communication channels during the pandemic. The cause for this can be due to the reason employees are introverted or because they needed interaction with other people during isolation. Three out of the five companies indicated that employees were more productive during the pandemic than before the pandemic. The reason for this can be due to the reason they don’t waste time in traffic and simply because they don’t know what else to do during the day other than work. All companies have indicated that security was one of the sectors that were severely affected by COVID-19. They also indicated that that wasn’t a problem for them since their employees were skilled enough to deal with cyber threats. BibliographyAmlani, R. D. (2012). "Advantages and limitations of different SDLC models." International Journal of Computer Applications & Information Technology 1(3): 6-11.	Balaji, S. and M. S. Murugaiyan (2012). "Waterfall vs. V-Model vs. Agile: A comparative study on SDLC." International Journal of Information Technology and Business Management 2(1): 26-30.	Bassil, Y. (2012). "A simulation model for the waterfall software development life cycle." arXiv preprint arXiv:1205.6904 2.	Charvat, J. (2003). "Project management methodologies: selecting, implementing, and supporting methodologies and processes for projects."	Chien, C. (2020). "What is Rapid Application Development (RAD)?" CODEBOTS  2022.	Daud, N. M. N., et al. (2010). Implementing rapid application development (RAD) methodology in developing practical training application system. 2010 International Symposium on Information Technology, IEEE.	Gandhi, P. (2012). "SWOT Analysis of Agile Methodologies." International Journal of Computer Science and its Applications 2(1).	Mahalakshmi, M. and M. Sundararajan (2013). "Traditional SDLC vs scrum methodology–a comparative study." International Journal of Emerging Technology and Advanced Engineering 3(6): 192-196.	McCormick, M. (2012). "Waterfall vs. Agile methodology." MPCS, N/A.	Teamwork (2021). "Which project management methodologies should you use?"   2022.	Zayat, W. and O. Senvar (2020). "Framework study for agile software development via scrum and Kanban." International journal of innovation and technology management 17(04): 2030002.
Facial recognition technology used to assist the elderly and people with disabilities with secure authenticationMichael Joshua Rosin31704948ITRI 671B.Sc. Hons. Computer Science & Information Technology 2022Potchefstroom Campus NWUSupervisor:	Mr. H.E. (Henri) van RensburgDate of submission:   30 October 2022Abstract The need for security measures increases exponentially day by day through changing passwords and pins, stricter access control, and new authentication means, leaving the elderly and people with disabilities behind. Different biometric security methods are analysed to determine if it is capable to assist the elderly and people with disabilities with secure authentication. Facial recognition methods are analysed to determine which method is the most accurate and whether it can be used to assist the elderly and people with disabilities in daily activities with secure authentication. An artefact was developed using a pre-trained CNN machine learning model which is used to detect and verify an individual's face by comparing the statistics of the captured face(s) with the existing statistics of multiple faces in the database. Once an individual’s face is verified the individual is granted access to a building or system. The captured information is stored in a CSV file which is used to perform data analysis. The resulting system proposes a facial recognition approach to assist the elderly and people with disabilities with secure authentication. Keywords:Security, Facial detection, Facial recognition, Biometrics, Authentication uittrekselDie behoefte aan sekuriteitsmaatreëls neem dag tot dag eksponensieel toe deur die verandering van wagwoorde en persoonlike identifikasie nommers, strenger toegangsbeheer en nuwe verifikasiemiddele, wat die bejaardes en mense met gestremdhede agterlaat. Verskillende biometriese sekuriteitsmethodes word ontleed om te bepaal of dit in staat is om bejaardes en mense met gestremdhede te help met veilige stawing. Gesigsherkenningsmethodes word ontleed om te bepaal watter metode die akkuraatste is en of dit gebruik kan word om bejaardes en mense met gestremdhede by te staan in daaglikse aktiwiteite met veilige verifikasie. 'n Artefak is ontwikkel met behulp van 'n voorafopgeleide CNN-masjienleermodel wat gebruik word om 'n individu se gesig op te spoor en te verifieer deur die statistieke van die vasgevangde gesig(te) te vergelyk met die bestaande statistieke van veelvuldige gesigte in die databasis. Sodra 'n individu se gesig geverifieer is, kry die individu toegang tot 'n gebou of stelsel. Die vasgelê inligting word gestoor in 'n CSV-lêer wat gebruik word om data-analise uit te voer. Die gevolglike stelsel stel  'n gesigsherkenningsbenadering voor om bejaardes en mense met gestremdhede te help met veilige verifikasie. Sleutelwoorde:Sekuriteit, Gesigsopsporing, Gesigsherkenning, Biometrie, VerifikasieList of TablesList of Figureschapter 1 - Introduction IntroductionSome people struggle to engage in technological activities such as people with disabilities and older people that may have considerable memory problems (Bozoki, Giordani et al. 2001). Facial recognition technology can be used to mitigate these problems. Instead of remembering numeric security codes, passwords and struggling to access a building through strict security measures, facial recognition technology can be used to assist the elder with daily activities such as accessing their bank account without having to remember numeric security codes and passwords and can also assist people with disabilities to access buildings without any struggles. The aim of this chapter is to provide background and information on the research topic. Sections that will follow in this chapter is an introduction and background to the research topic and why it is necessary to conduct this study provided by the formulated Aims and Objectives and the research approach that will be followed throughout this study. Background to studyIn an era where debit cards, credit cards, online banking, online trading, mobile phone, door locks, and other electronic security systems are becoming more common, remembering numeric security codes will undoubtedly become more difficult (Rasmussen and Rudmin 2010). According to Karlawish and Clark (2003), Alzheimer's disease, Frontotemporal dementia, Lewy body dementia, mild cognitive impairment, depression, and Cerebrovascular infarcts are medical illnesses that impair brain metabolism and are the main causes of mild memory loss in elderly patients. A patient with clinically significant memory loss will nearly always have quantifiable difficulties recalling newly taught knowledge, therefore individuals struggling with memory loss will most likely not adapt to new security measures (Karlawish and Clark 2003). The majority of people with impairments face considerable mobility challenges. The number of individuals with sensory disabilities such as blindness, deafness, low vision, hearing problems, and speech amount to about 40 to 50% of people with disabilities, whereas those with various physical disabilities are in the 20 to 50% range and people with cognitive disabilities are in the 7 to 15% range (Venter, Savill et al. 2002). People with physical disabilities such as cerebral palsy and multiple sclerosis struggles to engage in daily activities. Apart from medical and physical treatment for memory loss and physical disabilities, there are no alternative accommodating measures. As an alternative to the above-mentioned difficulties, a biometric system is proposed to address the technological hindrances that they might face. Biometrics is any automatically detectable, strong, and distinguishing physical attribute or personal trait that can be used to identify or validate an interval’s claimed identification (Woodward Jr, Horn et al. 2003), therefore a biometric system uses mathematical algorithms and biometric data to recognize a specific trait of an individual. A biometric system can consist of different reconditioning systems. Examples include iris scans, retinal scans, facial recognition, speaker- or voice recognition, fingerprints, hand- or finger geometry, dynamic signature verification, and keystroke dynamics. Identification and verification are the two modalities in which biometric technology can be used (Faundez-Zanuy 2006). In identification mode, the system must figure out who the user is. An individual does not claim an identity, the input user image is compared to a collection of existing user images in a database to identify the best match. In verification mode, the system’s goal is to determine if the individual who claims to be someone is that person. The subject claims an identity, and the provided image is compared to the claimed identity via their respective feature sets to authenticate the claim (Faundez-Zanuy 2006). Face detection and recognition is one of the most important biometric authentication technologies that may be used for both authentication and surveillance (Anwarul and Dahiya 2020). Facial recognition technology will be used to detect and verify an individual’s identity. Facial recognition technology is the chosen biometric security technology because it will best accommodate people with disabilities and the elderly and is safe to use during the COVID-19 pandemic. In this study one of the objectives is to determine if a biometric security system is capable of assisting the elderly and people with disabilities with secure authentication therefore by developing a biometric system that makes use of facial recognition technology, the biometric system will make use of a verification mode to determine if the individual claims to be someone is that person. Problem statementSecurity measures increase exponentially day by day through changing passwords and pins, stricter access control, and new authentication means, leaving the elderly and people with disabilities behind (Rasmussen and Rudmin 2010). The elderly has the tendency to struggle to remember passwords and pins because of memory loss and people with disabilities struggle to engage in daily activities because of their limitations. People with physical disabilities often face considerable mobility challenges (Venter, Savill et al. 2002). Biometric security needs to be discussed and how it can be used to assist the elderly and people with disabilities, and whether facial recognition technology can be used to assist the elderly and people with disabilities in daily activities with secure authentication. Research aims and objectives		The extent, depth, and direction of the study will be determined by the research aims and objectives. The research aims state what needs to accomplish and the research objectives state how the research aims will be accomplished.Research aimAs we move more towards a digital area where technology changes exponentially day by day, security measures increase drastically through changing passwords and pins, stricter access control, and new authentication means (Rasmussen and Rudmin 2010).  Some people struggle to engage in technological activities such as people with disabilities and older people that may have considerable memory problems (Bozoki, Giordani et al. 2001). The elderly and people with disabilities struggle to engage in technological activities because they struggle to adapt to the exponential technological and security changes. Facial detection and recognition are one of the most important biometric authentication technologies that may be used for both authentication and surveillance (Anwarul and Dahiya 2020). There are several approaches to mediate the problem but during this research, a biometric system is proposed to serve as an alternative accommodating measure to assist the elderly and people with disabilities to engage more efficiently in daily technological activities with secure authentication. Research will be conducted to create a facial recognition system that will detect and verify an individual’s face. Research objectivesIn order to achieve the aim, the following objectives are set to be addressed:Conduct research regarding technological and digital difficulties the elderly and people with disabilities encounter daily.Determine why the elderly and people with disabilities struggle to engage with certain technological and digital activities.Research digital security.Research biometric security.Research facial recognition.Develop a facial recognition system that will be able to detect an individual’s face, process the image, and determine if the system recognizes an individual’s face or not. Evaluate whether the proposed system works the way it should work.Research approachParadigmatic perspectiveA paradigm is a term that refers to the theoretical framework, as opposed to a theory, that determines how knowledge is researched and perceived. Several paradigms can be used such as positivism, interpretivism, critical social theory, and critical realism. Positivism is based on the rationalistic, empiricist philosophy and is sometimes referred to as “scientific technique” or “science research”. Positivism can be applied to the social world if the social world can be investigated in the same manner that the natural world can be researched (Mackenzie and Knipe 2006).Positivism relies on the hypotheticodeductive approach to verify a prior hypothesis that is frequently stated quantitively, where functional correlations can be inferred between the dependent variables and independent variables (Park, Konge et al. 2020). Research practice methods included in positivism are questionnaires, hypotheses, stat analysis, and design science research. Based on the paradigmatic background and perspective above, a positivistic paradigm will be best suited for this research study on assisting the elderly and people with disabilities with secure authentication to create a system or artifact to assist their daily technology struggles. In the research process, a positivist approach emphasizes measurements, experimentation, control, validity, dependability, and observations. This necessitates a quantitative strategy.  Proposed how facial recognition technology can help them to engage more efficiently in daily technological activities will be provided with the information found during the research study. Research methodologyWith the positivistic approach to this study, Design Science Research will be the appropriate research methodology since this approach makes use of quantitative data which will help with the development of the artifact.Design science research methodology is viewed as the other half of the IS research cycle, which generates and assesses information technology artifacts aimed at solving issues (Bisandu 2016). Table 1 shows the six-step design science research methodology: Table 1 - DSRM activities					Design science research contribution to Information Systems is measured in terms of how it is applied to certain needs in an appropriate environment, as well as how it contributes to the content of the knowledge base for future research and practice, and artifacts that solve existing problems (Bisandu 2016).The six steps indicated in Table 1 will be used to complete the project and develop an artifact in the form of a tool, a technique, a product or a process, or a technology to achieve the research aim.Data collection and processingQuantitative data will be collected. Data will be collected through research articles and case studies. Data will be collected before the system has been developed and data will be collected after the system has been collected. By comparing the data, we will find quantitative results. After data has been collected, the system will receive input from the user, process the input, and produce output. The computer will process the input image of the user and verify the user through the image of the person’s face. Artifact life cycleFigure 1 indicates the different stages of the development of the artifact to address the aims of the study:Figure 1 - Life-cycle evolution of the artifact setsRequirements phaseDuring the requirements phase, the resources which are required to build the artifact are defined and planning is done to figure out what the system is supposed to do and what it needs.Design phaseDifferent solutions are assessed, and the most efficient solution will be designed which will convert the requirements into comprehensive system design specifications. Implementation phaseThe system is developed and implanted during this phase.Deployment phaseThe system is deployed and ready to use during this phase.Development platform, resources, and environmentsThe development platform typically comprises the programming language to be used, the environment in which the development will take place, and the IDE to be used with the chosen programming language. Python will be the programming language for the project because it is simple and easy and contains OpenCV libraries. Visual Code will be the chosen IDE for this project because it works very well with Python and is easy to use. Windows 10 will be used as the development environment. Resources I will use to complete this project include a webcam and a computer. People who are willing to experiment with the system as well as acquire facial images from participants will be required.Approach to project management and project planIn order to ensure the completion of the project within a specific time frame, effective time management is key. The following processes and methods will be used to achieve the project objectives. Project scope and overview, a Gantt chart to plan around deadlines and manage resources appropriately, and the limitations and risks regarding the project.Project scopeThe scope of this project is to research older adults and people with disabilities and their issues with technology and authentication issues. Facial recognition, authentication, and biometric security will also be researched. A facial recognition system used to assist the elderly and people with disabilities need to be designed and developed. The system will be created using Python as the programming language, Visual Code as the IDE, and OpenCV libraries. The system must be able to detect an individual’s face and assist the person in daily activities such as automatically opening doors for people with disabilities and helping the elderly access their bank accounts without the need to remember pins and passwords. Project limitationsTime constraint The project’s time constraint will limit the quality of the project because the project must be completed within a specified timeframe. Budget constraintThere is no budget constraint because the system will be developed using a webcam and a computer. Risks of the project There are several risks within this project namely: Scope creepNew features and functions may have to be added to the existing system or perform labor that is not approved. Low performanceThere is a possibility that the system will underperform.Stretched resourcesThere might not be enough resources to complete the project. Resources such as tools, skills, or time.Responsibilities and contributions of each group memberThe project will be done solely by the researcher; therefore, the researcher will have all the responsibilities to complete the project within the specified timeframe.Gantt chartA Gantt chart will be used to assist me in properly allocating resources and planning work around deadlines. The Gantt chart will show the relationship between the start of the project and the end of the project as well as milestones. Figure 2 indicates the start date and end date of the project as well as the duration of each phase.Figure 2 - Gant chartProvisional chapter divisionChapter 1: IntroductionThe introduction consists of the problem the researcher has identified and how the researcher plans to approach the problem with an artifact. Discuss areas where the artifact will be used, the aims and objects of the project, the research methodology, and paradigm used throughout the research, and the approach to project management.Chapter 2: Literature StudyA brief discussion of why the elderly and people with disabilities struggle with the exponential increment of security measures and how biometric security, and facial recognition can be used to assist the elderly and people with disabilities with secure authentication. Chapter 3: Development of the project and documentation of the artifact A discussion of the development of the project as well as the design of the artifact will be provided.Chapter 4: Results The results of the artifact and the conclusion of the use of the artifact will be discussed here as to whether the development system is able to assist the elderly and people with disabilities with daily technological activities with secure authentication. Chapter 5: Refection A reflection will be provided on how the researcher found the project.Rigour / Validity & reliabilityIn quantitative research, the purpose of quality and rigor is to reduce the danger of bias while increasing the accuracy and reliability of findings. Rigour and reliability are best attained by careful and deliberate preparation, consistent and continuing researcher reflexivity, and open and honest communication between the researcher and the audience about the study and its findings (Johnson, Adkins et al. 2020). The researcher will therefore not lie about the findings and will carefully and deliberately prepare for the research. To ensure reliability a technique will be used to collect data to ensure the results are precise, reproducible, and stable. Procedures will be carefully planned to ensure that each measurement follows the same steps in the same order. Ethical considerationsWithin this project scope, there are some ethical considerations regarding quantitative research and the storing and scanning of an individual’s face. The system will need an individual’s permission and voluntary informed consent before being able to use the system and methods needs to be used to keep data confidential and ensure anonymity. The system will make use of certain protocols to ensure each user stays anonymous and to keep individuals’ information private. Permission and informed consentBefore the study begins, all participants will be told of the study’s goal, what will be required of them, and what will be gained from the study, after which they will be able to decide whether they wish to participate. An individual’s permission and consent will be required before being able to use the facial recognition system. Before an individual’s face is scanned into the system, they will have to complete a form giving permission and consent to store personal information. AnonymityDuring the study people will stay anonymous by making use of a pseudonym, therefore a fictitious name will be used instead of the person’s real name. No information regarding family relationships, occupation, and religious and cultural backgrounds will be asked. Data will be collected without obtaining any personal information. The facial recognition system will hash the image of an individual’s face before storing the image in the database. This means no one will be able to view the images stored in the database. The system will use the images for processes only and therefore it will be secure allowing individuals to stay anonymous. ConfidentialityTo ensure that an individual’s private information is respected and protected, the system will encrypt sensitive information and restrict data access, and regular safeguards will be used to keep data secret.  SummaryAs physical and technological security measures increase exponentially day by day, people with disabilities and the elderly struggle to engage in daily activities such as assessing buildings with strict security measures, using an ATM machine, remembering passwords and pins and so forth. The goal of this research study is to determine how to assist the elderly and people with disabilities in daily technological activities with secure authentication using facial recognition. The aim will be achieved through conducting research regarding older adults with memory loss, challenges that people with disabilities encounter daily, biometric security, and facial recognition technology. The project involves developing an artifact that will detect an individual’s face, process the image, and verify an individual’s identity. To ensure that the system will be developed within the given time frame an approach to project management and a project plan will be used consisting of the project scope, project limitations, risks of the project, responsibilities of the researchers, and a Gantt chart. Throughout the project, a positivistic approach will be used as well as a design science research methodology. Ethical concerns are discussed and addressed for this project seeing as individuals’ faces are captured and stored on a database.chapter 2 - Literature studyIntroductionAs we move more towards a digital era, digital security measures increase exponentially day by day to protect us against different types of threats, leaving the elderly and people with disabilities behind. Technological and digital obstacles as well as essential technological interaction and digital activities will be researched to determine with what activities older adults and people with disabilities struggle with daily. Different types of biometric security systems will be examined to determine which biometric security system will best accommodate the elderly and people with disabilities with secure authentication. Facial recognition technology will be discussed and examined to determine how this technology works and how it can be used to assist the elderly and people with disabilities to perform digital and technological tasks that require secure authentication.Technology interaction with the elderly and people with disabilities In many cases, older adults lack the necessary abilities to engage successfully in technological activities such as online banking, using ATMs, and other online activities (Hill, Betts et al. 2015). The number of individuals with sensory disabilities such as blindness, deafness, low vision, hearing problems, and speech amount to about 40 to 50% of people with disabilities, whereas those with various physical disabilities are in the 20 to 50% range and people with cognitive disabilities are in the 7 to 15% range (Venter, Savill et al. 2002). People with physical disabilities such as cerebral palsy and multiple sclerosis, struggles to engage in daily technological activities.Technological obstacles The elderly is called upon to adapt to new technologies and the demands of modern society as the population ages. It is well acknowledged that older people acclimatise to new technology more slowly than younger generations, either because they lack technological experience and skills or in other cases because of their current health status (Roupa, Nikas et al. 2010). According to Roupa, Nikas et al. (2010) the elderly struggle to engage with the following technological devices:ATMsMobile phonesTablets ComputersTelevisions According to Vaportzis, et al. (2017) there are three reasons the elderly struggle to engage in daily technological activities such as lack of instructions and guidance, lack of knowledge and confidence, as well as health-related barriers. These reasons are discussed in the sections that follows.Lack of Instructions and Guidance The elderly tend to not understand technological devices due to the lack of instructions and guidance on how to use the technological device. In some cases where there are instructions on how to use the technological device, the user manual is too technical which causes confusion. Most technological designs don’t consider that individuals lack knowledge on how to use the technology (Vaportzis, Giatsi Clausen et al. 2017). Lack of Knowledge and Confidence Most older adults fear using technology due to a lack of knowledge or low confidence, as well as the perceived dangers of technological equipment. The internet has adverse effects. With its large volume of data, it empowers users. Information overload, on the other hand, might be frightening for the elderly who are just learning how to use the internet. They are not aware of the difference between different types of technologies such as the difference between a computer and a smartphone. The elderly have the tendency of avoiding the use of technological devices due to the fact that they are scared of unknown technologies and are unsure of what the technology does or how it works (Vaportzis, Giatsi Clausen et al. 2017). Health-Related Barriers A patient with clinically significant memory loss will nearly always have quantifiable difficulties recalling newly taught knowledge, therefore individuals struggling with memory loss will most likely not adapt to new security measures (Karlawish and Clark, 2003). Most older adults struggle to use technological devices such as ATMs, computers, smartphones, tablets, and so forth due to age-related changes such as poor eyesight and wrist and finger problems. Most technological designs don’t consider physical or sensor disabilities (Vaportzis, Giatsi Clausen et al. 2017). The above-mentioned technological obstacles inherently include several digital obstacles as they are related to one another. Digital obstacles  People with disabilities are typically at a disadvantage in terms of technological activities, the reason being they have little or no access to the Internet. Even if they have digital accessibility, they face additional difficulties and obstacles as compared to the general population, particularly in terms of technology and software that does not sufficiently serve the requirements of individuals with disabilities (Lin, Tang et al. 2022). Johansson, Gulliksen et al. (2021) has identified that people with disabilities struggle at times with using general functions on the internet, using online banking and shopping, and using social media such as blogging and Facebook. Difficulties in using general functions on the internetPeople with impairments, dyscalculia, intellectual impairments, and language disorders find it difficult to navigate, search, grasp information, cope with the design, and use passwords (Johansson, Gulliksen et al. 2021). Use of online banking and shoppingAccording to Johansson, et al. (2021) the percentage of individuals who struggle to use online banking to pay bills ranges from 34% (intellectual impairment) to 88% (bipolar syndrome) and the percentages of individuals who struggle to shop online range from 35% (intellectual impairment) to 88% (ADD). Use of social mediaPeople with autism, ADD, ADHD, bipolar syndrome, and dyscalculia struggle to use social media, whereas people with bipolar, blindness, dyslexia, fine motor impairments, intellectual disabilities, and language impairments generally do not even have a social media account therefore hindering their technology and digital interactions.Essential technological interaction and digital activities In an era where debit cards, credit cards, online banking, online trading, mobile phone, door locks, and other electronic security systems are becoming more common, remembering numeric security codes will undoubtedly become more difficult (Rasmussen and Rudmin 2010).Selwyn, Gorard et al. (2003) conducted a study where they questioned older adults regarding their daily technological interactions and digital activities. Table 2 indicates the technological and digital activities in which the elderly engages on a daily basis.Table 2 - The use of the internet and computers among the elderly (Selwyn, Gorard et al 2003)As seen in Table 2, the majority of the elderly engage in the following technological and digital activities:Writing and editing letters, reports, and other documents Send/read E-mailLooking for products and services/gathering product information onlineLooking for information related to work/business/study on the world-wide-webOnline banking/management of personal finances Buy goods and services onlineThe above-mentioned technological and digital activities are essential in older adults’ daily lives. Therefore, digital security is extremely important in order to protect the elderly against different kinds of threats.Digital securityWe live in an area where our personal and professional lives are increasingly online. In the digital age, we use online banking applications, purchase goods and services, pay bills, interact with people through online social media, and perform certain activities of our jobs. Along with the convenience it offers, this growing reliance on the internet and digital networks have concerns. The phrase “digital security” refers to the tools used to protect an individual's online identity, data, and other resources. In essence, computerized security is the procedure employed to guarantee an individual’s online persona. Online media has become an essential part of our daily lives as a result of our constant exposure to cell phones and social media platforms such as Facebook, Instagram, Twitter, and many more (Masarani 2021). Masarani (2021) has identified that the following information, in a digital security sense, are at risk: personal payment data, personal health data, personal identification data, and personal investments. This information is discussed in the sections that follow.Personal payment data This information includes credit and charge card numbers, online financial numbers, and PIN codes if related to financial transactions. Criminals who gain access to an individual’s online banking information can trade a person’s assets or make purchases.Personal health dataThis type of information contains details about an individual’s health, such as a person's medical history, any prescribed medications, memberships in medical insurance plans, and trips to doctor’s offices and clinics. An individual’s health information may be used by criminals to arrange and swap professionally prescribed prescriptions or to record false insurance claims. Personal identification dataAn individual’s name, phone number, email address, government-backed retirement number, and home address are all included in this information. Individual data is only seldom used for both friendly design and wholesale fraud. Personal investmentsThis includes financial, security, and reputational consequences, as well as occasionally even real damages. Although colleagues are becoming more aware of the challenges posed by computerized security risk, they seldom handle it only from a specialist perspective and in a way that is disassociated from the financial and social dynamics. In addition to the four digital security risks identified by (Masarani 2021),  Humayun, Niazi et al. (2020) have identified several other digital security vulnerabilities such as Malware attacks, SQL injection attacks, Denial-of-service (DOS) attacks, Phishing, Session hijacking, Man-in-the-Middle attacks, and Cross-site scripting (XSS) attacks. These security vulnerabilities are discussed in the sections that follows.Malware attacks By taking advantage of security flaws in computer systems, the attacker deploys malicious software to obtain unauthorized access to these systems. An extreme financial or political payoff is the motive behind the malware, which heightens an attacker’s drive to infiltrate as many network devices as they can in order to further their nefarious objectives. SQL injection attacks In order to alter or manipulate the SQL statement to the attacker’s benefit, an input string is injected into the application. The database is harmed by this attack in several ways, including illegal access, database manipulation, and exposure of sensitive information. This attack poses a danger since it may result in data loss or usage by unauthorized parties, which would damage functionality and confidentiality. Additionally, with this type of attack, system-level commands are also executed, preventing authorized users from accessing the necessary data.Denial-of-service (DOS) attacksAn attacker who intends to disrupt a computer network will launch a DOS attack by bombarding the target with unnecessary requests in an effort to overburden the system and perhaps reduce its effectiveness. Phishing In order to get sensitive information from an Internet user, this illegal practice employs social engineering and technology. Phishing tactics include a variety of channels for communication, including email, instant messaging, pop-up windows, and websites. Which is especially concerning to the elderly and people with disabilities that do no regularly interact with technological devices to recognize when these phishing attacks are presented to them. Session hijacking and Man-in-the-Middle attacks This attack is a cyberattack when an unauthorized third party stealthily seizes control of the communication path connecting many destinations. The communication traffic of the intended victims might be interrupted, modified, or even replaced by the Man-in-the-Middle attacker. Additionally, since victims are unaware of the intrusion, they assume the communication connection is secure.Cross-site scripting (XSS) attacksA malicious attacker attempts to run JavaScript code in the victim’s browser in order to steal the victim’s sensitive information. It is a widespread vulnerability discovered in current Web sites. According to Nicholson, Coventry et al. (2019) there are three unique digital security issues among the elderly which are:Compared to younger adults, they are less defensive and more vulnerable to spamThey are less knowledgeable about computer privacy and security dangersThey frequently have a higher trust level for people they deal with onlineThe above-mentioned digital security issues are a great concern regarding technological and digital activities among the elderly and people with disabilities. Biometric security can be used to protect them against different types of threats the world has to offer such as Malware attacks, SQL injection attacks, Denial-of-service attacks, Phishing, Session hijacking and Man-in-the-Middle attacks, and Cross-site scripting attacks.Biometric security According to Faundez-Zanuy (2006), biometrics is derived from the Greek words “bios” (life) and “metrikos” (measure). It is a science that deals with the statistical study of biological properties in their strictest sense. As a result, biometric recognition of persons should be referred to as security applications that examine human traits for identity verification or identification.Types of biometric security systems used in the worldA biometric system can consist of different reconditioning systems. According to Liu and Silverman (2001), there are several different biometric security technologies such as fingerprints, hand geometry, retinal scans, iris scans, facial recognition, dynamic signature verification, and speak- or voice recognition. These different biometric security technologies will be evaluated to determine which biometric security technologies can best accommodate the elderly and people with disabilities.Fingerprints Fingerprint verification may be done in a variety of ways. Some are based on the traditional police approach of comparing minutiae, others are based on straight pattern-matching devices, and yet others are a little more unusual, using moiré fringe patterns and ultrasonics (Liu and Silverman 2001). According to Lourde and Khosla (2010), there are five stages involved in finger-scan verification and identification namely fingerprint image acquisition, image processing, locating distinctive characteristics, template creation, and template matching. These five stages are used in the process of confirming a person’s identification using multiple fingerprints of an individual. Fingerprint verification may be a viable option for in-house systems if one can provide enough training and explanation to users and the system functions in a controlled environment (Liu and Silverman 2001).Hand geometry Hand geometry is the study and measurement of the shape of the hand. This biometric is easy to use and has a decent mix of performance features (Liu and Silverman 2001). Hand geometry readers take measurements of a user’s palm and fingers in a variety of dimensions, such as deviation, length, angle, and breadth, and compare them to data recorded in a file. According to Ross, Jain et al. (1999) there are three stages involved in hand geometry verification and identification namely image acquisition, enrolment phase, and verification phase. These three stages are used in the process of confirming a person’s identification using multiple images of an individual’s hand. Hand geometry readers are being used by businesses in a variety of applications, including time and attendance records, where they have proven to be quite popular (Liu and Silverman 2001). Retinal scans This biometric is used to analyze the layer of blood vessels at the back of an individual’s eye. This approach involves scanning the distinctive patterns of the retina using a low-intensity light source through an optical coupler. This biometric does necessitate the user to look into a receptacle and focus on a certain area which can be inconvenient for individuals wearing glasses (Liu and Silverman 2001). Retinal scanning has not acquired popularity because individuals view the technology to be obtrusive, and retinal scanning devices are not commercially accessible (Woodward Jr, Horn et al. 2003). Iris scansIris scans entail examining characteristics identified in the colorful tissue ring that surrounds the pupil. Iris scanning, by far the least intrusive of the eye-related biometrics, uses a standard camera element and does not necessitate direct contact between the user and the scanner (Liu and Silverman 2001). Iris patterns emerge at random. As a result, the iris patterns of a person’s left and right eyes, as well as identical twins’ iris patterns, vary. Because the iris is very unique and robust, it can be used for both identification and verification applications (Woodward Jr, Horn et al. 2003). Facial recognitionFace detection and recognition is one of the most important biometric authentication technologies that may be used for both authentication and surveillance (Anwarul and Dahiya 2020). The spatial geometry of identifying aspects of the face is recorded by facial recognition. Facial recognition is done in a variety of ways by different methods, but all the methods focus on important aspects of the face. By comparing an image or video to a database consisting of different individuals' faces, a specific individual may be recognized (Anwarul and Dahiya 2020). Facial recognition has a clandestine or covert potential since a person’s face may be captured by a camera from a long distance. As a result, programs to identify card counters or other undesirables in casinos, shoplifters in stores, criminals, and terrorists in metropolitan areas have utilized facial recognition (Woodward Jr, Horn et al. 2003). Dynamic signature verification A written signature has traditionally served as a method of confirming an individual's identity. Dynamic signature verification is a way of assessing an individual's signature that is automated. This technology examines such dynamics as writing speed, pressure, and direction (Woodward Jr, Horn et al. 2003). People are accustomed to using signatures for transaction-related identity verification, and most would not consider it unusual to expand this to biometrics. Signature verification devices are relatively precise in operation and, as a result, as well suited to applications where a signature is a recognized identification (Liu and Silverman 2001).Speak- or voice recognitionSpeech authentication is based on sound-to-print authentication, which involves complicated technology that converts voice into text. Poor quality and ambient noise might obstruct verification. Furthermore, the enrolment process has frequently proven more difficult than other biometrics, contributing to the idea that voice is less reliable (Liu and Silverman 2001). These different biometric security systems are summarised in Table 2 below. Table 3 – Comparison of biometrics (Liu and Silverman 2001)Biometric security technology has been well known for decades, but it has mostly been used in extremely clandestine areas requiring severe security (Liu and Silverman 2001). Face detection and recognition is one of the most important biometric authentication technologies that may be used for both authentication and surveillance (Anwarul and Dahiya 2020). After evaluating the different biometric security systems, it is clear that facial recognition will best accommodate the elderly and people with disabilities due to high ease of use, high accuracy, and the high security level it provides. Facial recognition technology will be used to detect and verify an individual’s identity. Facial recognition technology is the chosen biometric security technology because as seen in Table 2 it will best accommodate people with disabilities and the elderly due to its high accuracy, ease of use, and user acceptance, and is safe to use during the COVID-19 pandemic. Biometric systemsBiometrics is any automatically detectable, strong, and distinguishing physical attribute or personal trait that can be used to identify or validate an interval’s claimed identification (Woodward Jr, Horn et al. 2003), therefore a biometric system uses mathematical algorithms and biometric data to recognize a specific trait of an individual. Figure 3 indicates the six primary components of a biometric security system.Figure 3 - A generic biometrics-based system (Lourde and Khosla 2010)As seen in Figure 3, Lourde and Khosla (2010) have stated that several components make up a biometric system such as data acquisition, compression, decompression, feature extraction, matcher, and decision-maker. The data acquisition component uses a sensor to collect biometric data in a digital format. The compression and decompression components are optional depending on the system’s storage requirements. The feature extraction component is used to create a feature vector whose elements are numerical characterizations of the underlying biometrics. The matcher component analyses feature vectors to provide a score indicating the degree of similarity between the pair of biometrics data under consideration. The decision-maker component determines whether the individual is who she/he claims to be. According to Sabhanayagam, Venkatesan et al. (2018), the characteristics of biometrics are Acceptability, Uniqueness, Performance, Universality, Collectability, Circumvention, and Permanence. These characteristics and their descriptions can be seen in Table 4. Table 4 - Characteristics of Biometrics (Sabhanayagam, Venkatesan et al. 2018)Identification mode Identification and verification are the two modalities in which biometric technology can be used (Faundez-Zanuy 2006). In Identification mode, the biometric system searches for matches across all of the database’s user templates to identify a specific individual. The system thereby uses a one-to-many comparison to determine an individual's identity without the need for the subject to assert their identity (or fails if the subject is not registered in the system database). In negative recognition applications, identification plays a crucial role in determining if the individual is who she/he refuses to be. Negative recognition serves to prohibit the use of several identities by one individual. Negative recognition is used to prevent an individual from using multiple identities. Positive recognition may also be used to identify individuals. While Traditional techniques for positive recognition, such as keys, passwords, tokens, and PINS may be effective, biometrics is the sole way to create negative recognition (Jain, Ross et al. 2004). Verification modeIn verification mode, the system verifies an individual’s identity by comparing the acquired biometric information with her/his biometric template(s) that are kept in the system database. In such a system, an individual who wants to be recognized asserts their identity, typically through a PIN, a smart card, a username, and so forth. The system then performs a one-to-one comparison to determine whether the assertion is true or false. In order to prevent numerous individuals from utilizing the same identity, identity verification is often used for positive recognition (Jain, Ross et al. 2004). Figure 4 indicates how the Verification and Identification mode works.Figure 4 - Verification and Identification mode (Jain, Ross et al. 2004)The components found in Figure 4 are explained in the Biometric Systems section. Verification mode will be used in this project to identify and verify an individual due to the requirements of this project.Limitations of biometric systemsDespite the fact that biometric systems are more user-friendly and offer greater security than conventional solutions, their usage is restricted to particular kinds of applications. These systems have several drawbacks that might drastically reduce their utilization. El-Abed and Charrier (2012) have identified the following limitations of biometric systems such as performance limitations, acceptability limitations, and architecture limitations. Performance limitationsThe verification of biometric raw data is vulnerable to mistakes, unlike password checking, and is expressed as a similarity percentage (one hundred percent is never obtained). The variance in human features, environmental circumstances, and cross-device matching are only a few causes of verification mistakes. Such acquisition artifacts may significantly degrade the functionality of biometric systems, reducing their usefulness in practical applications. Acceptability limitations The utilisation of biometric systems is connected to its perceived acceptability and satisfaction. Acceptability is influenced by the intended audience and the environment in which it is used. The three major kinds of basic biometrics obstacles are correctness in terms of mistakes, size or scale of the database, and usability in terms of ease of use. It is challenging to impose a system on a corporation that users would not accept for logical or physical access control.  Architecture limitationsA generic biometric system may be attacked in four different places namely the sensor, feature extractor, matcher, and the template database. Threats of circumvention, repudiation, contamination, collusion, and coercion threats are only a few of the negative aspects of biometric systems. The password technique uses the least expensive and most straightforward technology since it only needs basic software resources. On the other hand, this system is extremely vulnerable to attacks since it is very easy to conning them or by hacking the software of the system. Biometric information is impenetrable to guesswork, theft, or user sharing. Since biometric characteristics like facial recognition, retina scans, fingerprints, and iris scans are exclusive to an individual and cannot be shared across users, they offer individuality, accurate identification, and high security. A biometric system is user-friendly since it is simple to install and use. The technology is also extremely quick, operating in microseconds or seconds (El-Abed and Charrier 2012). As discussed in the Biometric security section, Facial recognition technology is a great biometric system due to its high accuracy, ease of use, and user acceptance, and is safe to use during the COVID-19 pandemic.Facial recognition In daily life, faces are the primary source of information about other people. Faces reveal a person’s identity, age, gender, and emotional state. The most natural method of biometric authentication between people is arguably facial recognition. A single still image, a collection of still images, or a video sequence may be used for facial recognition (Faundez-Zanuy 2006). Facial recognition is turning into a critical system as fraud exponentially increases day by day. There are many uses for an effective facial recognition system, including forensics, criminal identification, surveillance, fraud exclusion, person verification, and so forth (Anwarul and Dahiya 2020). With complicated effects of lighting, occlusion, and imaging condition on the live images, face recognition systems are a challenging image processing challenge in real-world applications, it combines face detection and identification methods from image analysis. To locate the faces in each image, a detection program is used. In most computer vision applications, provided pictures with well-known structural attributes are classified using a recognition algorithm. Applications that employ standard images for recognition identify faces using face identification algorithms to extract images of the face’s eyes, eyebrows, nose, and mouth (Gürel and Erden 2012). According to Woodward Jr, Horn et al. (2003) there are five-step to successfully recognize an individual through the use of facial recognition and will be discussed in the sections that follow.An image of an individual’s face is first captured. This acquisition can be carried out using an electro-optical camera to capture a live image of a subject or by digitally scanning an existing snapshot. Videos may also be utilized as a source of face images because it provides a quick succession of distinct still images.The second step is to use software to locate any faces in the image that was just collected. This is a challenging process, thus, to identify the faces, generalized patterns of what a face “looks like” (two eyes and a mouth positioned in an oval shape) are frequently used. Once a face has been selected by the facial detection software, it may be examined. Facial recognition examines the spatial geometry of distinctive facial traits. The methods used by various vendors to extract a face’s distinguishing traits vary. Therefore, precise information about the methods is confidential. The most widely used technique is known as Principal Components Analysis (PCA), often known as the eigenface technique. To improve its performance, PCA has been integrated with neural networks and local feature analysis. The process of feature extraction leads to the creation of templates. A template is a condensed set of information that depicts the distinctive traits of an enrolee’s face. The third phase’s template is compared with known faces in a database in the fourth step. This procedure generates scores that represent how well each produced template matches each template in the database for an identification application. The created template in a verification application is solely contrasted with the claimed identity template, which is the only template in the database. Whether any of the scores generated in step four are high enough to declare a match is the last step. The end-user may often configure the rules guiding the declaration of a match, allowing him or her to choose how the facial recognition system should operate depending on security and operational factors.  Anwarul and Dahiya (2020) have identified three steps of facial detection and recognition which are Face detection, Feature extraction, and Face recognition. These steps can be seen in Figure 5. Figure 5 - Process of Facial Recognition (Anwarul and Dahiya 2020)Face detection: Unitising landmarks on the face, such as the eyes, nose, and mouth, it is possible to recognize the faces in an image or video. Feature extraction: For more accurate face recognition, the faces have been aligned and normalized. Face recognition: To identify a certain individual in an image or video by comparing the image or video to the database.Advantages of facial recognition technology The advantages and disadvantages of facial recognition are mentioned in Table 5 along with examples of applications, and appropriate techniques that may be chosen depending on the needs of the application. Table 5 -  Advantages and disadvantages of Facial Recognition (Sabhanayagam, Venkatesan et al. 2018)The disadvantages mentioned in Table 5 are temporary disadvantages seeing that researchers are examining these disadvantages and improving facial recognition technology exponentially.Examining facial recognitionIn recent years, facial recognition technology has advanced significantly. The best facial recognition algorithm as of April 2020 has an error rate of just 0.08% compared to the best algorithm in 2014. Facial recognition software can be almost entirely accurate under the right circumstances. Verification algorithms can attain accuracy ratings of up to 99.97% when compared to clear reference images such as a passport photo or mugshot (Crumpler 2020). However perfect circumstances are difficult to achieve in real-world operations, and algorithms are subject to various factors that reduce their accuracy. Anwarul and Dahiya (2020) have identified several factors that affect facial recognition accuracy such as occlusion, noise, pose variation, aging, illumination, plastic surgery, and low resolution. These several factors are discussed in the sections that follow.OcclusionOne of the most significant obstacles to face recognition is partial occlusion. In the event that a portion of an individual’s face is missing, it may be challenging to identify the face. For instance, sunglasses and eyeglasses may cover eyes, hairstyles and earrings can cover ears, scarves can cover half of the face, and moustaches and beards can cover half of the face. The system’s performance may suffer as a result of these elements. Researchers suggest several strategies to deal with these issues. Noise Different kinds of noise are prone to appear in digital images. Poor detection and identification accuracy are caused by this noise. Depending on how the image was created, noise can be added to it in many ways. Pre-handling is a crucial component of the overall architecture for face detection and identification. Pose variation One of the main issues with the facial recognition system is the different distribution of poses. For the profile face and gallery face to correspond, frontal face reconstruction is necessary. A database image with a frontal view and non-frontal profile face might produce inaccurate results, necessitating this reconstruction. The researchers’ various methods for transforming non-frontal faces into frontal faces might improve recognition precision. Aging One of the natural factors impacting face recognition systems is aging, which might cause an algorithm to crash. The face is made up of bones, skin, and muscle components. When muscles contract, the consequence is a twisting of the face features. However, as a person ages, they experience significant changes in their facial features, such as changes in their face’s shape and surface. The facial recognition frameworks should be capable of taking this need into account. IlluminationThe facial recognition system’s effectiveness can be severely hurt by changes in lighting. These differences may be the result of backdrop lighting, shadows, brightness, contrast, and so forth. Plastic surgeryIt is a major concern element that influences the accuracy of face recognition. Numerous occurrences involving accidents resulted in many people having cosmetic surgery, therefore the current face recognition framework cannot recognize their faces. Plastic surgery is typically used by criminals to conceal their identities. Research is being done on the need to create identification systems that are capable of recognizing faces even after plastic surgery. Low resolutionThe images captured by security cameras have low quality since they capture small faces. It might be difficult to match the high-resolution gallery image with the low-resolution query image. As the majority of the items of interest are lost in such a low-resolution image, there is a very limited amount of data present. The recognition rate may be significantly reduced as a result. Researchers are suggesting several approaches to deal with this problem. The above-mentioned factors that affect facial recognition accuracy are being addressed day by day through extensive research to improve facial recognition accuracy. As mentioned before most of these factors have already been addressed and the accuracy of facial recognition has improved drastically over the past years and is still improved as of today.Facial recognition methodsSolanki and Pittalia (2016) have stated that facial recognition methods are divided into four categories namely Knowledge-based methods, Feature-invariant methods, Template matching methods, and Appearance-based methods. Knowledge-based methodsOur understanding of human faces is being encoded through knowledge-based methods. These techniques are rule-based. They attempt to abstract our understanding of faces into a set of rules. A face typically features two symmetrical eyes, and the area around the eyes is darker than the cheeks. The space between the eyes or the contrast in colour intensity between the lower zone and the eye area are examples of facial characteristics. The difficulty of creating a suitable set of rules is the main issue with these systems. If the rules were too broad, there may be plenty of false positives. On the other side, if the restrictions were too specific, there may be a slot of false negatives. To solve these issues, hierarchical knowledge-based methods might be built. With minimal inputs, these techniques demonstrate their effectiveness. However, what if an individual is wearing glasses? Other features can solve that issue. For instance, some algorithms can recognize the colour of human skin or textures that resemble faces. Feature-invariant methodsMethods that look for a face’s invariant characteristics regardless of its angle or position. Facial recognition makes use of the distinct micro-elements on the face, such as the mouth, chin, nose, cheekbones, lips, ears, forehead, and so forth. Eye socket outlines, the area around the cheekbones, the sides of the mouth, and the position of the nose and eyes may all be seen in the upper face. The separation between the eyes, the length of the nose, and the jaw angle. Template matching methodsThese algorithms compare the incoming images with previously recorded faces or feature patterns. Methods of template matching attempt to categorize a face as a function. One might attempt to locate a common template for each face. It is possible to define several aspects independently. A face, for instance, may be broken down into its eyes, facial contour, nose, and mouth. A face model may also be constructed using edges. However, these techniques are only effective on frontal faces. Other templates take advantage of the relationship between the brightness and darkness of the various facial areas. To find faces, these common patterns are contrasted with the input image. Appearance-based methodsAn algorithm that matches templates and learns its pattern database from a series of training images. The majority of appearance-based methods include statistical analysis and using machine learning to identify the relevant characteristics of face images. Appearance-based methods make use of two different algorithms such as the Principal Component Analysis (PCA) algorithm and the Fisher’s Discriminant Analysis (LDA) algorithm. SummaryTechnological and digital obstacles have been researched and a good understanding of how and why the elderly and people with disabilities struggle to engage in daily technological activities was achieved through this literature study. Biometric security has been researched and discussed and a good understanding of how different types of biometric systems work has been achieved. Through examining the different types of biometric security systems discussed in Section 2.3.1 a conclusion has been made that the most appropriate viable biometric security system for this project is facial recognition. Facial recognition has been researched and a good understanding has been achieved of how it works and the different types of methods that can be used to implement this technology. The knowledge gained from this study will be applied to create an artifact in the following chapter of this project. To accomplish the project’s goal, a facial recognition system will be programmed, designed, and implemented. The artifact’s documentation will also be supplied.chapter 3 – Development of the artifactDescription of the artifactAn artifact was developed with the goal to assist the elderly and people with disabilities with secure authentication. The artifact consists of facial recognition and verification technology which is used to automatically detect and verify an individual’s face. The main idea behind the development of the artifact is to assist the elderly in accessing passwords and pins without the need to remember passwords and pins and to assist people with disabilities to gain access to a building without the struggle to open and close doors. The artifact verifies an individual’s face and gives the person access to a building, an ATM, an online banking application, et cetera. After the recognition and verification process, the verified individual’s name(s) are written to an excel file as well as the time the individual's face was verified. The artifact doesn’t store new images in a database as we’ll assume the database for a bank or access to a building already exists. The description of the artifact can be broken up into two sections: the face detection process and the recognition and verification process. Face detection processThe artifact makes use of the face_recognition library which measures the distances between an individual’s major facial features such as the eyes, mouth, nose, et cetera. The Euclidean distance algorithm uses these distances to create a distinct face signature. Four locations are calculated which are the end points of an individual’s face. The top left and top right corner of an individual’s face as well as the bottom right and bottom left corner of an individual's face. Figure 6 illustrates the face detection process by drawing a square around each face detected within each frame. The statistics-based technique is used to detect multiple faces by classifying all conceivable sections of images, which looks at the face region as a class of models and develops the classifier using a large number of face and non-face training samples. Figure 6 - Face detection using the artefactFace verification process Many different methods can be used to recognise and verify an individual’s face. The different methods are discussed in Section 2.4.3 and for this project, the template matching method is used. Figure 7 illustrates a flow chart of the steps involved in the template matching method that was used with a detailed explanation following the figure. Figure 7 - Face verification processEach step illustrated in Figure 7 is explained below.The Face recognition model is loadedKnown face images are loaded from the database Face detectionA new frame is capturedThe frame is compressed Find all the faces and face encodings in the current frame of the videoConvert the image colour from BGR to RGBDetect face using the Euclidean distance algorithmIf a face is detected the program will continue to the next step, otherwise the process will start from the beginning unless the user terminated the programFace feature extraction Extract locations of the mouth, eyes, nose, and so forth from the current frameFeature comparison (compare frame with known faces in the database)See if the face is a match for the known face(s)If a match was found append the name of the image. Draw a red rectangle around the person’s face and display the appended name above the rectangleIf a match was not found. Draw a red rectangle around the person’s face and display “Unknown” above the rectangle Write the appended name(s) or “Unknown” to a csv file as well as the time the face was verified or notDetermine if the program was terminated or notIf not, the process will start from the beginningOtherwise, the program will endFigure 8 and Figure 9 illustrates how the artefact detects and verifies faces using the processes described above.Figure 8 - Face verification using the artefactFigure 9 - Multiple faces verified using the artefactThe life cycle of the artifactThe agile methodology has been chosen as the artifact development life cycle due to its iterative and incremental method to develop software, this is important due to the fact that the chosen research methodology is DSRM which is discussed in Section 1.5.2. The capacity to move quickly is referred to as agility. The agile methodology’s development life cycle is a predefined sequence of stages that a project goes through from the beginning to the end. These stages include Planning, Requirement analysis, Design, Building, Testing, and Deployment. Figure 10 illustrates the iterative nature and different phases of the agile development life cycle.Figure 10 - Agile Development Methodology (Zayat and Senvar 2020)Planning phase:During the planning phase, the developer establishes the goal and scope of the software solution. A document is created during this phase outlining the essential specifications for the software solution. A gant chart is also included in Section 3.4.6 allocating the time needed for each phase. Requirement analysis phase: During the requirements phase, the resources which are required to build the artifact are defined to figure out what the system is supposed to do and what it needs.Design phase:Different solutions are assessed, and the most efficient solution will be designed which will convert the identified requirements into comprehensive system design specifications for the next phase. Building phase:During this phase, the artefact will be developed. Not every aspect of the artefact will be completed in one iteration of the life cycle. Each building incrementally adding the required functionality to the artefact. Testing phase:Once a certain part of the artefact has been designed and developed, that part will be tested to ensure that it works the way it should.Deployment phaseThe system is deployed and ready to use during this phase.Agile methodology benefits According to Nehra (2022) using an agile methodology has the following benefits:Increased flexibility The agile development methodology is built on flexibility. Using an agile methodology enables an individual to respond to changes and still be able to produce a successful software solution by identifying where their flexibility lies, accounting for it in their project plan, and incorporating it into the agile development process.Better project predictability Given that an agile methodology makes use of sprints (or in this case builds), the predetermined lengths make is simpler for the developer to analyse his/her performance. A sprint is a brief period during which a developer works to finish assignments, benchmarks, or deliverables.  Sprints, also known as iterations, effectively divide the project into manageable blocks where smaller objectives may be achieved. Better controlAgile allows developers to have more control over the project with features such as transparency, quality-control, and feedback integrations. By making use of sophisticated reporting tools and procedures for daily progress updates, the client is guaranteed the desired software quality.Continuous improvement 	One of the primary concepts of Agile is the pursuit of continuous improvement. Each sprint will be more promising than the previous one and include no iterative errors since the agile methodology is recursive. Once the final testing phase in the final iteration has passed successfully, the artefact has been deployed and is ready to use. Product Quality The agile approach is an iterative process that provides the ability to improve the system/artefact being developed with each iteration. The development of high-quality software solutions is facilitated by a persistent focus on quality control and improvements.Description of the development of the artefact Since the Agile methodology was used, multiple iterations occurred which includes multiple phases in each iteration. Once an iteration has been completed, feedback was provided, which was used to move to the next iteration. Each iteration was an improvement on the previous iteration. Figure 13 in Section 3.4.6 illustrates the Gant chart which was used to help the researcher stay on track and deliver the artefact on time.Iteration 1: Setting up the environment:Setting up environment Research has been conducted on which programming language, Integrated Development Environment (IDE), operating system, and web camera to use that will best suite a facial detection and verification system. The advantages and disadvantages of each mentioned technology were compared, and the following technologies were chosen for the facial detection and verification system:Programming language Python was the chosen programming language, the reason being that it is simple and easy to use and understand. It contains libraries that other languages don’t contain and is currently the most used language in the world. Python bindings are available for OpenCV which is the most widely used library for computer vision. Integrated Development Environment (IDE)Visual Studio Code was the chosen IDE, the reason being that it’s very simple and easy to use and understand and works very well with Python. Anaconda was used as the environment in Visual Studio Code to simplify package management and deployment. Different packages were installed to create an environment where face detection and verification can work optimally.Operating systemWindows 10 Pro was the chosen operating system.Web Camera Hikvision DS-U12 1080p was the chosen web camera due to its reasonable price, high quality, and availability for this development of the artefact. It was the most feasible option for this project.Source controlA GitHub repository has been setup to help the researcher with source control and incremental development improvements on the artefact.Iteration 2: Face detection using Haar cascade Research was done to understand how face detection works and the system requirements were analysed to ensure that the environment is right for facial detection. There are many different options on how to use computer vision to detect an individual’s face. Objects in images can be detected using the haar cascade algorithm which can function in real-time and isn’t overly complicated. A haar cascade detector can be trained to recognise many different objects including bikes, fruits, faces, cars, etc.The haar cascade model was designed, developed, implemented, and tested. Once it has been tested the researcher realised that haal cascade algorithms tend to have a higher probability of false-positive detections and are not as accurate as the latest algorithms we have today. Iteration 3: Face detection and verification using the face_recognition library The face_recognition OpenCV library was researched and compared to other facial detection algorithms. The haal cascade model was removed and replaced by the face_recognition model. The face_recognition model is a lot more accurate than the haal cascade and makes use of the Euclidean distance algorithm and a pre trained CNN model. The face detection process is described in Section 3.1.1.  Facial verification algorithms are researched and designed after the face detection model has been designed, developed, and tested. Research has shown that the Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) facial verification model is the most accurate model due to its popular deep learning algorithms. Planning and requirement analysis has been done regarding using the CNN model. Once the CNN algorithm has been designed, developed, and implemented, the researcher has found that a lot of processing power is needed in order to use the CNN model. Therefore, the face_recognition model has been implemented to use the Euclidean distance algorithm and a pre trained CNN to create a template for each face. These templates are stored in a database and once an individual’s face has been detected, the face_recognition model calculates the distance between the template face and the detected face. If these distances match, then the name is retrieved and displayed above the individual’s face. This process was tested multiple times to ensure that it is highly accurate and works the way it should. Iteration 4: Face detection with multiple facesOnce the facial detection and verification system works on an individual, it was time to adjust some features to ensure multiple individuals can be detected at the same time. When this feature was tested, the program was extremely slow. Therefore, a thread was created for each frame, and when this was tested the program was slower than previously. Therefore, the threads were removed, and the program was designed, developed, and tested with the feature to detect multiple faces. Iteration 5: Face verification with multiple faces Once multiple individuals can be detected at the same time, multiple face verification was researched, designed, developed, and tested. Different algorithms were tested but once again the face_recognition library was the best option and was very accurate. Figure 11 illustrates that the algorithm can detect and verify multiple faces with high accuracy even in bad lighting.Figure 11 - Face verification with bad lighting using artefactResearch was done on how to make the verification process more accurate by detecting individuals with glasses. Different algorithms were researched, designed, developed, and tested. Figure 12 illustrates how the artefact can detect and verify the same person with glasses.Figure 12 - Face verification with glasses using artefactIteration 6: Export to excel fileAt this point, the facial detection and verification system works better than expected and there is time to add a security feature. Research was done on how to create an attendance sheet to determine when an individual accesses a building or system using his/her face. During the planning phase, it was clear to use a csv file to write the verified/unverified names and the time the face(s) was recognised to the file. The attendance function was designed, developed, and tested. Once everything worked,  the program was tested for the last time to ensure it reached the expected outcome.Figure 13 - Gant chart for Agile SDLCFinal artefact operationFirstly, if a user doesn’t exist in the database which is used to grant an individual access to a building or ATM /online banking system, the user must first register at the organisation, scanning his/her face and storing it in a database. If the user has already registered at the organisation his/her face already exists in the database. Before an individual is granted access to a building, ATM, or online banking system, their face is detected and verified. Once the software solution has been deployed it will continually search for known faces until the key “q” is pressed which will terminate the process. SummaryAn agile system development life cycle was followed to develop the artefact due to the fact that this methodology is an iterative and incremental method to develop software. Therefore, it is important for the chosen research methodology which is DSRM. Different facial detection and verification algorithms were researched, analysed, and tested. Most algorithms required machine learning models to detect and verify an individual’s face but for this project an OpenCV library was used due to how accurate the model is and requires a lot less processing power. The library was adjusted to enable the artefact to detect and verify multiple faces regardless of if the lighting is good or bad and to detect and verify an individual’s face with or without glasses/facial hair.The face_recognition OpenCV library makes use of face landmarks, face locations, face comparisons, and face distances to compare statistics of multiple faces with each other. If the statistics of two faces match, the face is verified and allows the user to access a building, ATM, online banking application, et cetera. The verified user’s name is written to a file as well as the time the face was verified.chapter 4 – ResultsResults As physical and technological security measures increase exponentially day by day, people with disabilities and the elderly struggle to engage in daily activities such as assessing buildings with strict security measures, using an ATM machine, remembering passwords and pins and so forth. The goal of this research study is to determine how to assist the elderly and people with disabilities in daily technological activities with secure authentication using facial recognition. The aim will be achieved through conducting research regarding older adults with memory loss, challenges that people with disabilities encounter daily, biometric security, and facial recognition technology. The project involves developing an artifact that will detect an individual’s face, process the image, and verify an individual’s identity. To ensure that the system will be developed within the given time frame an approach to project management and a project plan will be used consisting of the project scope, project limitations, risks of the project, responsibilities of the researchers, and a Gantt chart. Ethical concerns are discussed and addressed for this project seeing as individuals’ faces are captured and stored on a database.The positivistic research paradigm was used to determine how knowledge is researched and perceived, and the Design Science Research methodology was used to develop the artefact to address the identified problem. Technological and digital obstacles have been researched and a good understanding of how and why the elderly and people with disabilities struggle to engage in daily technological activities was achieved through this literature study. Digital security has been researched to determine how important it is for secure authentication. Biometric security has been researched and discussed and a good understanding of how different types of biometric systems work has been achieved. Through examining the different types of biometric security systems, the conclusion has been made that the most appropriate and viable biometric security system to assist the elderly and people with disabilities is facial recognition. Facial recognition has been researched and a good understanding has been achieved of how it works and the different types of methods that can be used to implement this technology. The knowledge gained from this study was applied to create an artifact. The artefact can successfully detect and verify an individual and store data for data analytics. The artefact has been implemented and tested and the system works well enough to solve the identified problem. It has a facial detection accuracy of 99.38% and can accurately verify an individual regardless of good or bad lighting, if the person is wearing glasses, or if the person has facial hair. Since all the research objectives has been successfully completed a conclusion can be made that facial recognition technology is capable of assisting the elderly and people with disabilities with secure authentication.  Further research should be conducted, and systems implemented to ensure that the elderly and people with disabilities are included in the advancement of technology relating to secure authentication. The system can be implemented with IoT devices as well as include liveness detection which is a machine learning model which can differentiate the difference between a real person and a photo of a person. Further research can be conducted on different facial detection and verification algorithms to determine which algorithm is the most optimal. chapter 5 – Reflection What did you learn while completing this project?I learned how to conduct research in order to solve an identified problem. I developed time management skills which I used to successfully complete the project. The agile project management methodology was used to help me develop the artefact while delivering a high-quality software solution. I learned how facial recognition technology works as well as how a CNN machine learning model works. I developed a better understanding of how the OpenCV library works and how good python is for computer vision. Did you achieve the objectives that you set for the project? DiscussAll objectives were achieved due to project management. The following objectives were set to be addressed:Conduct research regarding technological and digital difficulties the elderly and people with disabilities encounter daily.Determine why the elderly and people with disabilities struggle to engage with certain technological and digital activities.Research digital security.Research biometric security.Research facial recognition.Develop a facial recognition system that will be able to detect an individual’s face, process the image, and determine if the system recognizes an individual’s face or not. Evaluate whether the proposed system works the way it should work.All the above-mentioned objectives were achieved through researching the different topics and designing and developing an artefact which addressed the identified problem. How successful were you in managing the project and meeting target dates? Discuss The agile project management methodology helped me with time management and to finish work before the given deadlines. A gant chart was created to help me with time management. Therefore, I was successful in managing the project and delivering the project before the deadline.Summary To conclude, this module has given me the necessary skills to identify a problem, research topics regarding the problem, solve the identified problem using problem solving skills and a project management methodology. I enjoyed the project and found it interesting. I realised that computer scientists have the capability to make contributions to the real world and that software can be used to help the elderly and people with disabilities.Appendices Ethical declaration ITRI 671 Research ethics form: Honours projectName: Michael RosinTitle of project: Facial recognition technology used to assist the elderly and people with disabilities with secure authenticationSupervisor: Mr. H.E. (Henri) van Rensburg4. Describe your research question and give a short description of your plans for the collection of data.Security measures increase exponentially day by day through changing passwords and pins, stricter access control, and new authentication means, leaving the elderly and people with disabilities behind (Rasmussen and Rudmin 2010). The elderly has the tendency to struggle to remember passwords and pins because of memory loss and people with disabilities struggle to engage in daily activities because of their limitations. People with physical disabilities often face considerable mobility challenges (Venter, Savill et al. 2002). Biometric security needs to be discussed and how it can be used to assist the elderly and people with disabilities, and whether facial recognition technology can be used to assist the elderly and people with disabilities in daily activities with secure authentication.I need to collect images of people’s face. I will ask my friends and family to use images of their faces. I declare that the information contained in this form is accurate. I have attempted to identify the risks that may arise in conducting this research and acknowledge my obligations and the rights of the participants. I confirm thatthe research will be conducted in line with all University, legal and ethical standards.Name of student: Michael Rosin Signature:Date:2022/08/25Name of study leader: Mr. Henri van Rensburg Signature:Date:	2022/08/25
