




Project Management Methodologies and failures


A Du Toit
31842534

Research proposal for the Dissertation submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree Magister Curationis in information and computer science at the North-West University




Supervisor:	Prof Neels Kruger



Date of submission: 16 May 2021
Version: 1.0

 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
1	INTRODUCTION	1
2	PROJECT MANAGEMENT METHODOLOGIES	1
2.1	PMBOK (project management body of knowledge)	1
2.1.1	Project management process groups	1
2.1.2	Knowledge areas	3
2.1.3	Advantages of PMBOK	3
2.1.4	Disadvantages of PMBOK	3
2.1.5	Opportunities of PMBOK	3
2.1.6	Threats of PMBOK	4
2.2	APM (Agile project management)	4
2.2.1	Principles of agile project management	4
2.2.2	Agile project management delivery framework	5
2.2.3	Advantages of APM	6
2.2.4	Disadvantages of APM	6
2.2.5	Opportunities of APM	7
2.2.6	Threats of APM	7
2.3	COBIT19	7
2.3.1	Processes of COBIT	8
3	EXECUTIVE SUMMARY	9
BIBLIOGRAPHY	10

 
LIST OF FIGURES
Figure 1: Project Management Process Groups by (Guide 2001)	1
Figure 2: Agile project management by Ambler Scott (1998)	5

 
RESEARCH PROTOCOL 
1	Introduction 
In this study the different types of project management methodologies and failures will be discussed to act as a guide for organizations. The PRINCE2 and Agile project management methodologies will be discussed as well as the PMBOK and COBIT19 bodies of knowledge. According to Charvat (2003) a methodology is defined as a set of guidelines that describes a sequence of actions and procedures for completing a project successfully. Methodologies is used within an organization to guide the project life cycle with use of instructions. It is important to determine the correct project management methodology, or else the process will not reach its full potential and the project may result in failure.
2	Project Management Methodologies
2.1	PMBOK (project management body of knowledge)
Project management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) is defined by the process groups and knowledge areas. The processes and knowledge areas are defined and explained as followed (Guide 2001).
2.1.1	Project management process groups
 
Figure 1: Project Management Process Groups by (Guide 2001)
Initiating process group
Initiating process group defines the initial scope that consists of the new process required for the new project. All the necessary roles are identified namely, the project manager, internal and external stakeholders and the project management team. Throughout the initiating process the project is divided into smaller phases in order to help keep the project focused on its needs.
Planning process group
The Planning Process Group includes the procedures used to determine the project's overall scope. Invest time and effort in defining and refining the goals, as well as developing the plan of action needed to achieve them. Due to possible changes within the process, there may be a need to adjust the planning process. The documentation output of the planning process includes the scope, time, costs, quality, communication, risk, and procurements (Guide 2001).
Execution process group
The Executing Process Group consist of those processes performed to complete the work defi ned in the project management plan to satisfy the project specifications(Guide 2001). The activities listed in the project management plan are integrated and carried out. Human resources and technical resources are managed throughout the updates of the project plan.
Monitoring and controlling process group
The Monitoring and Controlling Process Group includes the procedures that track, assess, and control the project's progress and performance, identify any areas where modifications to the plan are needed; and implement those adjustments (Guide 2001). Project performance is regularly assessed to identify the quality produced.
Closing process group
The closing process group consists of all the processes in order to finalize the project. the closing of this project needs to be verified, and when that happened the following may occur:
•	Receive customer approval
•	Review the project
•	Documentations of new developments
•	Update processes managements
2.1.2	Knowledge areas
The knowledge areas of PMBOK occurs within the process groups. These areas are used to describe the tools, techniques, inputs and outputs determined within the processes. These knowledge areas are listed below:
•	Project integration management
•	Project scope management
•	Project time management
•	Project cost management
•	Project quality management
•	Project human resource management
•	Project communications management
•	Project risk management
•	Project procurement management
•	Project stakeholder management
2.1.3	Advantages of PMBOK
The goal of PMBOK is to standardise the management practices across organizations. The advantages from using PMBOK are listed below:
•	Provide useful guides of practices and are regularly updated
•	Provide documentation of each step within the processes and the tools, input and techniques are necessary 
•	Standard project management process
•	Any industry can use this guide for the best practices
2.1.4	Disadvantages of PMBOK
Although PMBOK is widely used, there may be some disadvantage:
•	Too complex for small projects
•	Needs to adapt to projects size
•	Needs to adapt to application area
•	Needs to adapt to the scope, time, budget and quality constraints
2.1.5	Opportunities of PMBOK
•	Improves more organizations and there management
•	More consistency between organizations management that improve user performance
•	More industries can make use of PMBOK
2.1.6	Threats of PMBOK
PMBOK defines a risk as a uncertain event that can have a positive of negative outcome (Guide 2001).
•	PMBOK is too complex and organizations is at risk with for poor planning
•	Project performance may not be up to standard
•	Time to understand guide may take long in influence
•	Cost analysis may determine a poor budget
2.2	APM (Agile project management)
Agile project management (APM) is an iterative approach to develop a project throughout its life cycle(Madampe 2017). Iterative or agile life cycles are composed of several iterations or incremental steps towards the completion of a project.  APM is mostly used because changes can be made throughout the project life cycle. APM makes use of small iterations to minimize the risk with clearly outlined deliverables. These deliverables are constantly communicated throughout the project life cycle to minimize the use of unnecessary documentation.
One of the aims of an agile or iterative approach is to release benefits throughout the process rather than only at the end. APM is based on the agile software development movement(Cervone 2011). The concepts of agile software project management are to accept change, focus on customer value, release portion of functionality gradually, collaborate, reflect, and learn on a continual basis (Fitsilis 2008). These concepts 
2.2.1	Principles of agile project management
APM is known for its ability to handle constant change and communication in order to deliver the maximum value with proper time and budget management. the principles named below is typically used in the Agile Software Development Manifesto.
Individuals and interactions over processes and tools
This principle focuses on the individuals working within the project in teams. Every person must focus on the benefits of teamwork, sharing data, team communication and learning from feedback.
Working software over comprehensive documentation
The goal of this principle is to concentrate more on the quality solution and to be able to deliver working software instead of focusing on large detailed documentation.
Customer collaboration over contract negotiation
Throughout the agile process there is constant communication with end users to change or improve the deliverables of the project. Iterate with small processes through the project in order to benefit the outcomes of the project. This principle can improve the quality of work, customer satisfaction and teamwork management.
Responding to change over following a structured plan
Instead of sticking to the structured plan, an agile environment is open for change when new developments is determined that would work better than the proposed solution. New ideas is constantly gathered to improve the project outcomes.
2.2.2	Agile project management delivery framework
Agile project management is typically divided into four main processes known as the initial, construct, deliver and support phase.
 
Figure 2: Agile project management by Ambler Scott (1998)


•	Initial phase
The goal of this phase is to start the team working on the project and clear any confusion about the project. This phase consists of four main stages. Justification is the first phase where a technical, operational, and economical feasibility study is evaluated up to determine whether it makes sense to proceed with this project. Next, definition and validation of requirements followed by definition of initial documents and project infrastructure.
•	Construct phase
The construct phase consists of analysing, designing, testing, and manufacturing the project.
•	Deliver phase
This phase the project will be released to the client and the environment thereof will be tested. The results of the tests will be assessed, and the project can continue to improve. 
•	Support phase
This phase supports the changes identified in the deliver phase and is in charge of the change management.
2.2.3	Advantages of APM
There are advantages to using APM (Sharma, Sarkar et al. 2012).
•	Agile is adaptive to a changing environment.
•	Ensure customer satisfaction through constant communication throughout the process.
•	Agile minimize documentation.
•	Within agile the risks within development is reduced due to feedbacks received to help discover errors.
•	Agile methodologies empower individuals engaged, increase responsibility, promote variety of ideas, allow for early benefits release, and promote ongoing development.
•	Because changes are progressive and evolutionary rather than revolutionary, Agile may assist generate client and user involvement. It can therefore be successful in promoting cultural change, which is important to the success of most transformation programs.
•	Agile provides feedback that benefit the process more than waterfall.

2.2.4	Disadvantages of APM
•	Customer feedback determine the development throughout the project. If the customer is not clear on the requirements the development process will fail.
•	Agile focuses more on the physical solution rather than the documentation. This leads to less detail about the project which means the development will be difficult to understand.
•	Agile can be very time consuming due to the regular changing of requirements. Many resources are wasted.
•	Developers struggle to keep up with the ever-changing environment and every design, and code-based changes.
2.2.5	Opportunities of APM
APM can increase design flexibility. Productivity, communication, and coordination between team members can be improved. Time and effort are better managed throughout the process which leads to better team moral.
2.2.6	Threats of APM
APM has not been completely accepted by traditional companies due to the difficulty of organizing the agile process and standards set by the methodology.
2.3	COBIT19
COBIT19 is a newer version of the COBIT5 document, with this there were 12 processes adopted.
1.	SUPPORT – Governance:  Evaluate, Direct and Monitor (EDM)
a.	EDM01: Governance framework setting and maintenance
2.	SUPPORT – Management : Align, Plan and Organize (APO)
a.	APO01: Manage the ICT management framework
b.	APO02: Manage strategy
c.	APO03: Manage enterprise architecture (TOGAF)
d.	APO05: Manage portfolio (MIOS)
e.	APO10: Manage Suppliers
f.	APO12: Manage Risk
g.	APO13: Manage security (ISO/IEC 2700)
3.	CORE – Management: Build, Acquire and Implement (BAI)
a.	BAI01: Manage programmes and projects (PRINCE 2/PMBOK)
4.	CORE – Management: Deliver, Service and Support (DSS) (ITIL)
a.	DSS01: Manage operations
5.	DSS04: Manage continuity
6.	SUPPORT – Management: Monitor, Evaluate and Assess (MEA)
a.	MEA01: Monitor, evaluate and assess performance and conformance 
2.3.1	Processes of COBIT
•	Evaluate, Direct and Monitor
o	Evaluate the strategic options, direct the management on the strategic options and monitor the results of the strategy.
o	Components of this domain consists of: Process, Organizational Structures, Information Flows and Items, People Skills and Competencies, Policies and Procedures, Culture & Ethics and Behaviour, Services, Infrastructure and Applications
•	Align, Plan and Support
o	Design a management system based on the goals that covers the management processes roles and responsibilities, among many.
o	Goals:
	EG03 Compliance with external laws and regulations
	EG08 Optimization of internal business process functionality
	EG11 Compliance with internal policies
	EG12 Managed digital transformation programs
	AG03 Realized benefits from I&T-enabled investments and services portfolio
	AG11 I&T compliance with internal policies
•	Build, Acquire and Implement
o	Initiate, plan, control, and execute programs, and monitor the progress of the project.
o	Goals:
	EG01 Portfolio of competitive products and services
	EG08 Optimization of internal business process functionality
	EG12 Managed digital transformation programs
	AG03 Realized benefits from I&T-enabled investments and services portfolio
	AG09 Delivering programs on time, on budget and meeting requirements and quality standards
•	Deliver, Service and Support
o	Manage Operations
o	Execute the standard procedure
o	Goals:
	EG01 Portfolio of competitive products and services
	EG08 Optimization of internal business process functionality
	AG05	Delivery of I&T services in line with business requirements
•	Monitor, Evaluate and Asses
o	Managed Performance and Conformance Monitoring
o	Provide transparency of performance and conformance and drive achievement of goals.
o	Goals:
	EG01 Portfolio of competitive products and services
	EG04 Quality of financial information
	EG07 Quality of management information
	EG08 Optimization of internal business process functionality
3	Executive Summary
Within this study, a SWOT analysis was done for PMBOK, APM. In order to determine which methodology would be applicable for a organization there are a lot of areas there needs to be looked at. For smaller companies PMBOK would not be suggested because of complications within projects. We also need to look in the current state of the world we live is. Since the COVID19 pandemic started, it influenced the economy and the ways organizations needs to manage there projects and resources. These methodologies may need an update for the current world and the problems that emerged. With this in mind, it is impossible to exactly determine which methodology would be best for an organization. An organization will need to take the risk and determine which works the best.


 
BIBLIOGRAPHY 
Ambler Scott, W. (1998). Process patterns: building large-scale systems using object technology, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.
	
Cervone, H. F. (2011). "Understanding agile project management methods using Scrum." OCLC Systems & Services: International digital library perspectives.
	
Charvat, J. (2003). "Project management methodologies: selecting, implementing, and supporting methodologies and processes for projects."
	
Fitsilis, P. (2008). Comparing PMBOK and Agile Project Management software development processes. Advances in Computer and Information Sciences and Engineering, Springer: 378-383.
	
Guide, A. (2001). Project management body of knowledge (pmbok® guide). Project Management Institute.
	
Madampe, M. (2017). "Successful adoption of agile project management in software development industry." International Journal of Computer Science and Information Technology Research 5(4): 2327.
	
Sharma, S., et al. (2012). "Agile processes and methodologies: A conceptual study." International journal on computer science and Engineering 4(5): 892.
	

