Project Management Methodologies and failuresA Du Toit31842534Research proposal for the Dissertation submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree Magister Curationis in information and computer science at the North-West UniversitySupervisor:	Prof Neels KrugerDate of submission: 16 May 2021Version: 1.0Table of contentsList of FiguresRESEARCH PROTOCOL Introduction In this study the different types of project management methodologies and failures will be discussed to act as a guide for organizations. The PRINCE2 and Agile project management methodologies will be discussed as well as the PMBOK and COBIT19 bodies of knowledge. According to Charvat (2003) a methodology is defined as a set of guidelines that describes a sequence of actions and procedures for completing a project successfully. Methodologies is used within an organization to guide the project life cycle with use of instructions. It is important to determine the correct project management methodology, or else the process will not reach its full potential and the project may result in failure.Project Management MethodologiesPMBOK (project management body of knowledge)Project management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) is defined by the process groups and knowledge areas. The processes and knowledge areas are defined and explained as followed (Guide 2001).Project management process groupsFigure 1: Project Management Process Groups by (Guide 2001)Initiating process groupInitiating process group defines the initial scope that consists of the new process required for the new project. All the necessary roles are identified namely, the project manager, internal and external stakeholders and the project management team. Throughout the initiating process the project is divided into smaller phases in order to help keep the project focused on its needs.Planning process groupThe Planning Process Group includes the procedures used to determine the project's overall scope. Invest time and effort in defining and refining the goals, as well as developing the plan of action needed to achieve them. Due to possible changes within the process, there may be a need to adjust the planning process. The documentation output of the planning process includes the scope, time, costs, quality, communication, risk, and procurements (Guide 2001).Execution process groupThe Executing Process Group consist of those processes performed to complete the work defi ned in the project management plan to satisfy the project specifications(Guide 2001). The activities listed in the project management plan are integrated and carried out. Human resources and technical resources are managed throughout the updates of the project plan.Monitoring and controlling process groupThe Monitoring and Controlling Process Group includes the procedures that track, assess, and control the project's progress and performance, identify any areas where modifications to the plan are needed; and implement those adjustments (Guide 2001). Project performance is regularly assessed to identify the quality produced.Closing process groupThe closing process group consists of all the processes in order to finalize the project. the closing of this project needs to be verified, and when that happened the following may occur:Receive customer approvalReview the projectDocumentations of new developmentsUpdate processes managementsKnowledge areasThe knowledge areas of PMBOK occurs within the process groups. These areas are used to describe the tools, techniques, inputs and outputs determined within the processes. These knowledge areas are listed below:Project integration managementProject scope managementProject time managementProject cost managementProject quality managementProject human resource managementProject communications managementProject risk managementProject procurement managementProject stakeholder managementAdvantages of PMBOKThe goal of PMBOK is to standardise the management practices across organizations. The advantages from using PMBOK are listed below:Provide useful guides of practices and are regularly updatedProvide documentation of each step within the processes and the tools, input and techniques are necessary Standard project management processAny industry can use this guide for the best practicesDisadvantages of PMBOKAlthough PMBOK is widely used, there may be some disadvantage:Too complex for small projectsNeeds to adapt to projects sizeNeeds to adapt to application areaNeeds to adapt to the scope, time, budget and quality constraintsOpportunities of PMBOKImproves more organizations and there managementMore consistency between organizations management that improve user performanceMore industries can make use of PMBOKThreats of PMBOKPMBOK defines a risk as a uncertain event that can have a positive of negative outcome (Guide 2001).PMBOK is too complex and organizations is at risk with for poor planningProject performance may not be up to standardTime to understand guide may take long in influenceCost analysis may determine a poor budgetAPM (Agile project management)Agile project management (APM) is an iterative approach to develop a project throughout its life cycle(Madampe 2017). Iterative or agile life cycles are composed of several iterations or incremental steps towards the completion of a project.  APM is mostly used because changes can be made throughout the project life cycle. APM makes use of small iterations to minimize the risk with clearly outlined deliverables. These deliverables are constantly communicated throughout the project life cycle to minimize the use of unnecessary documentation.One of the aims of an agile or iterative approach is to release benefits throughout the process rather than only at the end. APM is based on the agile software development movement(Cervone 2011). The concepts of agile software project management are to accept change, focus on customer value, release portion of functionality gradually, collaborate, reflect, and learn on a continual basis (Fitsilis 2008). These concepts Principles of agile project managementAPM is known for its ability to handle constant change and communication in order to deliver the maximum value with proper time and budget management. the principles named below is typically used in the Agile Software Development Manifesto.Individuals and interactions over processes and toolsThis principle focuses on the individuals working within the project in teams. Every person must focus on the benefits of teamwork, sharing data, team communication and learning from feedback.Working software over comprehensive documentationThe goal of this principle is to concentrate more on the quality solution and to be able to deliver working software instead of focusing on large detailed documentation.Customer collaboration over contract negotiationThroughout the agile process there is constant communication with end users to change or improve the deliverables of the project. Iterate with small processes through the project in order to benefit the outcomes of the project. This principle can improve the quality of work, customer satisfaction and teamwork management.Responding to change over following a structured planInstead of sticking to the structured plan, an agile environment is open for change when new developments is determined that would work better than the proposed solution. New ideas is constantly gathered to improve the project outcomes.Agile project management delivery frameworkAgile project management is typically divided into four main processes known as the initial, construct, deliver and support phase.Figure 2: Agile project management by Ambler Scott (1998)Initial phaseThe goal of this phase is to start the team working on the project and clear any confusion about the project. This phase consists of four main stages. Justification is the first phase where a technical, operational, and economical feasibility study is evaluated up to determine whether it makes sense to proceed with this project. Next, definition and validation of requirements followed by definition of initial documents and project infrastructure.Construct phaseThe construct phase consists of analysing, designing, testing, and manufacturing the project.Deliver phaseThis phase the project will be released to the client and the environment thereof will be tested. The results of the tests will be assessed, and the project can continue to improve. Support phaseThis phase supports the changes identified in the deliver phase and is in charge of the change management.Advantages of APMThere are advantages to using APM (Sharma, Sarkar et al. 2012).Agile is adaptive to a changing environment.Ensure customer satisfaction through constant communication throughout the process.Agile minimize documentation.Within agile the risks within development is reduced due to feedbacks received to help discover errors.Agile methodologies empower individuals engaged, increase responsibility, promote variety of ideas, allow for early benefits release, and promote ongoing development.Because changes are progressive and evolutionary rather than revolutionary, Agile may assist generate client and user involvement. It can therefore be successful in promoting cultural change, which is important to the success of most transformation programs.Agile provides feedback that benefit the process more than waterfall.Disadvantages of APMCustomer feedback determine the development throughout the project. If the customer is not clear on the requirements the development process will fail.Agile focuses more on the physical solution rather than the documentation. This leads to less detail about the project which means the development will be difficult to understand.Agile can be very time consuming due to the regular changing of requirements. Many resources are wasted.Developers struggle to keep up with the ever-changing environment and every design, and code-based changes.Opportunities of APMAPM can increase design flexibility. Productivity, communication, and coordination between team members can be improved. Time and effort are better managed throughout the process which leads to better team moral.Threats of APMAPM has not been completely accepted by traditional companies due to the difficulty of organizing the agile process and standards set by the methodology.COBIT19COBIT19 is a newer version of the COBIT5 document, with this there were 12 processes adopted.SUPPORT – Governance:  Evaluate, Direct and Monitor (EDM)EDM01: Governance framework setting and maintenanceSUPPORT – Management : Align, Plan and Organize (APO)APO01: Manage the ICT management frameworkAPO02: Manage strategyAPO03: Manage enterprise architecture (TOGAF)APO05: Manage portfolio (MIOS)APO10: Manage SuppliersAPO12: Manage RiskAPO13: Manage security (ISO/IEC 2700)CORE – Management: Build, Acquire and Implement (BAI)BAI01: Manage programmes and projects (PRINCE 2/PMBOK)CORE – Management: Deliver, Service and Support (DSS) (ITIL)DSS01: Manage operationsDSS04: Manage continuitySUPPORT – Management: Monitor, Evaluate and Assess (MEA)MEA01: Monitor, evaluate and assess performance and conformance Processes of COBITEvaluate, Direct and MonitorEvaluate the strategic options, direct the management on the strategic options and monitor the results of the strategy.Components of this domain consists of: Process, Organizational Structures, Information Flows and Items, People Skills and Competencies, Policies and Procedures, Culture & Ethics and Behaviour, Services, Infrastructure and ApplicationsAlign, Plan and SupportDesign a management system based on the goals that covers the management processes roles and responsibilities, among many.Goals:EG03 Compliance with external laws and regulationsEG08 Optimization of internal business process functionalityEG11 Compliance with internal policiesEG12 Managed digital transformation programsAG03 Realized benefits from I&T-enabled investments and services portfolioAG11 I&T compliance with internal policiesBuild, Acquire and ImplementInitiate, plan, control, and execute programs, and monitor the progress of the project.Goals:EG01 Portfolio of competitive products and servicesEG08 Optimization of internal business process functionalityEG12 Managed digital transformation programsAG03 Realized benefits from I&T-enabled investments and services portfolioAG09 Delivering programs on time, on budget and meeting requirements and quality standardsDeliver, Service and SupportManage OperationsExecute the standard procedureGoals:EG01 Portfolio of competitive products and servicesEG08 Optimization of internal business process functionalityAG05	Delivery of I&T services in line with business requirementsMonitor, Evaluate and AssesManaged Performance and Conformance MonitoringProvide transparency of performance and conformance and drive achievement of goals.Goals:EG01 Portfolio of competitive products and servicesEG04 Quality of financial informationEG07 Quality of management informationEG08 Optimization of internal business process functionalityExecutive SummaryWithin this study, a SWOT analysis was done for PMBOK, APM. In order to determine which methodology would be applicable for a organization there are a lot of areas there needs to be looked at. For smaller companies PMBOK would not be suggested because of complications within projects. We also need to look in the current state of the world we live is. Since the COVID19 pandemic started, it influenced the economy and the ways organizations needs to manage there projects and resources. These methodologies may need an update for the current world and the problems that emerged. With this in mind, it is impossible to exactly determine which methodology would be best for an organization. An organization will need to take the risk and determine which works the best.Bibliography Ambler Scott, W. (1998). Process patterns: building large-scale systems using object technology, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.	Cervone, H. F. (2011). "Understanding agile project management methods using Scrum." OCLC Systems & Services: International digital library perspectives.	Charvat, J. (2003). "Project management methodologies: selecting, implementing, and supporting methodologies and processes for projects."	Fitsilis, P. (2008). Comparing PMBOK and Agile Project Management software development processes. Advances in Computer and Information Sciences and Engineering, Springer: 378-383.	Guide, A. (2001). Project management body of knowledge (pmbok® guide). Project Management Institute.	Madampe, M. (2017). "Successful adoption of agile project management in software development industry." International Journal of Computer Science and Information Technology Research 5(4): 2327.	Sharma, S., et al. (2012). "Agile processes and methodologies: A conceptual study." International journal on computer science and Engineering 4(5): 892.
Project Management and Software Development MethodologiesA Du Toit31842534Research proposal for the Dissertation submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree Magister Curation is in information and computer science at the North-West UniversitySupervisor:	Prof Neels KrugerDate of submission: 17 Oct 2022Version: 1.0Table of contentsList of FiguresLIST OF TABLESTable 1: Comparisons between companies	19RESEARCH PROTOCOL Introduction This study will discuss the different types of project management methodologies and failures to guide organisations. The PRINCE2 and Agile project management methodologies will be discussed and the PMBOK and COBIT19 bodies of knowledge. According to Charvat (2003), a methodology is a set of guidelines that describes a sequence of actions and procedures for completing a project. Methodologies are used within an organisation to guide the project life cycle using instructions. It is essential to determine the correct project management methodology, or else the process will not reach its full potential, and the project may result in failure.Project Management MethodologiesPMBOK (project management body of knowledge)Project management Body of Knowledge (PMBOK) is defined by the process groups and knowledge areas. The processes and knowledge areas are defined and explained as follows: (Guide 2001).Project management process groupsFigure 1: Project Management Process Groups by (Guide 2001)Initiating process groupInitiating process group defines the initial scope of the new process required for the new project. All the necessary roles are identified: the project manager, internal and external stakeholders, and the project management team. Throughout the initiating process, the project is divided into smaller phases to help keep the project focused on its needs.Planning process groupThe Planning Process Group includes the procedures used to determine the project's overall scope. Invest time and effort in defining and refining the goals and developing the plan of action needed to achieve them. Due to possible changes within the process, there may be a need to adjust the planning process. The documentation output of the planning process includes the scope, time, costs, quality, communication, risk, and procurements (Guide 2001).Execution process groupThe Executing Process Group consist of those processes performed to complete the work defined in the project management plan to satisfy the project specifications(Guide 2001). The activities listed in the project management plan are integrated and carried out, and human resources and technical resources are managed throughout the updates of the project plan.Monitoring and controlling process groupThe Monitoring and Controlling Process Group includes the procedures that track, assess, and control the project's progress and performance, identify any areas where modifications to the plan are needed, and implement those adjustments (Guide 2001). Project performance is regularly assessed to identify the quality produced.Closing process groupThe closing process group consists of all the processes to finalise the project. the closing of this project needs to be verified, and when that happens the following may occur:Receive customer approvalReview the projectDocumentations of new developmentsUpdate processes managementsKnowledge areasThe knowledge areas of PMBOK occur within the process groups. These areas describe the tools, techniques, inputs and outputs determined within the processes. These knowledge areas are listed below:Project integration managementProject scope managementProject time managementProject cost managementProject quality managementProject human resource managementProject communications managementProject risk managementProject procurement managementProject stakeholder managementAdvantages of PMBOKThe goal of PMBOK is to standardise management practices across organisations. The advantages of using PMBOK are listed below:Provide helpful guides of practices and are regularly updatedProvide documentation of each step within the processes, and the tools, input and techniques are necessary Standardised project management processAny industry can use this guide for the best practicesDisadvantages of PMBOKAlthough PMBOK is widely used, there may be some disadvantages:Too complex for small projectsNeeds to adapt to project sizeNeeds to adapt to the application areaNeeds to adapt to the scope, time, budget, and quality constraintsOpportunities of PMBOKImproves more organisations and their managementMore consistency between organisations management that improve user performanceMore industries can make use of PMBOKThreats of PMBOKPMBOK defines risk as an uncertain event with a positive or negative outcome (Guide 2001).PMBOK is too complex, and organisations are at risk of poor planningProject performance may not be up to standardTime to understand the guide may take a long timeCost analysis may determine a poor budgetAPM (Agile project management)Agile project management (APM) is an iterative approach to developing a project throughout its life cycle (Madampe 2017). Iterative or agile life cycles are composed of several iterations or incremental steps towards completing a project. APM is mainly used because changes can be made throughout the project life cycle. APM makes use of small iterations to minimise the risk with clearly outlined deliverables. These deliverables are constantly communicated throughout the project life cycle to minimise the use of unnecessary documentation.One of the aims of an agile or iterative approach is to release benefits throughout the process rather than only at the end. APM is based on the agile software development movement (Cervone 2011). Agile software project management concepts are accepting change, focusing on customer value, gradually releasing functionality, collaborating, reflecting, and learning continually (Fitsilis 2008). Principles of agile project managementAPM is known for its ability to handle constant change and communication to deliver the maximum value with proper time and budget management. The principles named below are typically used in the Agile Software Development Manifesto.Individuals and interactions over processes and toolsThis principle focuses on the individuals working within the project in teams. Every person must focus on the benefits of teamwork, sharing data, team communication and learning from feedback.Working software over comprehensive documentationThe goal of this principle is to concentrate more on the quality solution and to be able to deliver working software instead of focusing on large detailed documentation.Customer collaboration over contract negotiationThroughout the agile process, there is constant communication with end-users to change or improve the deliverables of the project. Iterate with small processes through the project to benefit the outcomes of the project. This principle can improve the quality of work, customer satisfaction and teamwork management.Responding to change by following a structured planInstead of sticking to the structured plan, an agile environment is open to change when new developments are determined to work better than the proposed solution. New ideas are constantly gathered to improve the project outcomes.Agile project management delivery frameworkAgile project management is typically divided into four main processes: the initial, construct, deliver, and support phases.Figure 2: Agile project management by Ambler Scott (1998)Initial phaseThis phase aims to start the team working on the project and clear any confusion about the project. This phase consists of four main stages. Justification is the first phase where a technical, operational, and economic feasibility study is evaluated to determine whether it makes sense to proceed with this project. Next is the definition and validation of requirements followed by the initial documents and project infrastructure definition.Construct phaseThe construct phase involves analysing, designing, testing, and manufacturing the project.Deliver phaseIn this phase, the project will be released to the client, and the environment will be tested. The results of the tests will be assessed, and the project can continue to improve. Support phaseThis phase supports the changes identified in the delivery phase and is in charge of the change management.Advantages of APMThere are advantages to using APM (Sharma, Sarkar et al. 2012).Agile is adaptive to a changing environment.Ensure customer satisfaction through constant communication throughout the process.Agile minimises documentation.Within agile, the development risks are reduced due to feedback received to help discover errors.Agile methodologies empower individuals engaged, increase responsibility, promote various ideas, allow for early benefits release, and promote ongoing development.Because changes are progressive and evolutionary rather than revolutionary, Agile may assist generate client and user involvement. Therefore, it can successfully promote cultural change, which is essential to the success of most transformation programs.Agile provides feedback that benefits the process more than waterfall.Disadvantages of APMCustomer feedback determines the development throughout the project. If the customer is not clear on the requirements, the development process will fail.Agile focuses more on the physical solution rather than the documentation. This leads to less detail about the project, which makes the development challenging to understand.Agile can be very time consuming due to the regular changing of requirements. Many resources are wasted.Developers struggle to keep up with the ever-changing environment and every design and code-based change.Opportunities of APMAPM can increase design flexibility. Productivity, communication, and coordination between team members can be improved. Time and effort are better managed throughout the process, leading to better team morale.Threats of APMTraditional companies have not entirely accepted APM due to the difficulty of organising the agile process and standards set by the methodology.COBIT19COBIT19 is a newer version of the COBIT5 document. With this, there were 12 processes adopted.SUPPORT – Governance:  Evaluate, Direct and Monitor (EDM)EDM01: Governance framework setting and maintenanceSUPPORT – Management: Align, Plan and Organize (APO)APO01: Manage the ICT management frameworkAPO02: Manage strategyAPO03: Manage enterprise architecture (TOGAF)APO05: Manage portfolio (MIOS)APO10: Manage SuppliersAPO12: Manage RiskAPO13: Manage security (ISO/IEC 2700)CORE – Management: Build, Acquire and Implement (BAI)BAI01: Manage programmes and projects (PRINCE 2/PMBOK)CORE – Management: Deliver, Service and Support (DSS) (ITIL)DSS01: Manage operationsDSS04: Manage continuitySUPPORT – Management: Monitor, Evaluate and Assess (MEA)MEA01: Monitor, evaluate and assess performance and conformance Processes of COBITEvaluate, Direct and MonitorEvaluate the strategic options, direct the management on the strategic options and monitor the strategy results.Components of this domain consist of Process, Organizational Structures, Information Flows and Items, People Skills and Competencies, Policies and Procedures, Culture & Ethics and Behaviour, Services, Infrastructure and ApplicationsAlign, Plan and SupportDesign a management system based on the goals covering the management processes, roles and responsibilities, among many.Goals:EG03 Compliance with external laws and regulationsEG08 Optimisation of internal business process functionalityEG11 Compliance with internal policiesEG12 Managed digital transformation programsAG03 Realised benefits from I&T-enabled investments and services portfolioAG11 I&T compliance with internal policiesBuild, Acquire and ImplementInitiate, plan, control, and execute programs and monitor the project's progress.Goals:EG01 Portfolio of competitive products and servicesEG08 Optimisation of internal business process functionalityEG12 Managed digital transformation programsAG03 Realised benefits from I&T-enabled investments and services portfolioAG09 Delivering programs on time, on budget and meeting requirements and quality standardsDeliver, Service and SupportManage OperationsExecute the standard procedureGoals:EG01 Portfolio of competitive products and servicesEG08 Optimisation of internal business process functionalityAG05	Delivery of I&T services in line with business requirementsMonitor, Evaluate and AssessManaged Performance and Conformance MonitoringProvide transparency of performance and conformance and drive achievement of goals.Goals:EG01 Portfolio of competitive products and servicesEG04 quality of financial informationEG07 quality of management informationEG08 Optimisation of internal business process functionalityExecutive SummaryWithin this study, a SWOT analysis was done for PMBOK, and APM. In order to determine which methodology would be most applicable for a organisation, numerous areas need to be looked at. PMBOK would not be suggested for smaller companies because of complications within projects. We also need to look at the current state of our world. Since the COVID19 pandemic started, it has influenced the economy and the ways organisations need to manage their projects and resources. These methodologies may need an update for the current world and the emerging problems. It is impossible to determine which methodology would be best for an organisation exactly. An organisation will need to take the risk and determine which works the best.Overall a nice summary of the two methodologies PMBOK (a framework) and APM. I am missing any deliberation and support for the statements you make in your executive summary. More rigour and discussion regarding the changing environment, supported by sources, are needed. 60%Software Development methodologyIntroductionThe term "software development methodology" describes the systematic procedures used to complete a project. It is a mix of pragmatism and design principles that dates to the early days of computers (Chandra 2015). The objective is to offer a systematic methodology for software development. This chapter will discuss the different types of software development methodologies which includes Waterfall, Agile, Rapid application development, Open source development, Extreme programming, and Prototyping. The comparison of these methodologies is summarised to provide clear information for decision making. The stages within software development methodologies consists of research, planning, design, development, testing, setup, and maintenance which help build the methodology.Software development methodologiesStages within the methodologiesThe stages within software development occurs at their own time frame and produce the relevant deliverables of that stage (Saeed, Jhanjhi et al. 2019). These stages are also referred to as projects.ResearchResearch is the first project within the cycle. The client formulate the desired requirements such as the budget, objectives and time constraint by doing research of similar projects(Saeed, Jhanjhi et al. 2019). This stage consists of the main characters comes together where the project owner formulate the requirements of the project and send it to the project manager where the requirements are evaluated before it is send to the project team (Despa 2014). The project team will then evaluate the requirements from a technical perspective such as the tools and software nodded to build the application. This phase is done in form of a feasibility study (Chandra 2015).PlanningPlanning is second in line to complete. Also know as the requirement analysis phase(Chandra 2015). This phase consists of dividing the project into smaller projects where a team within the project team is dedicated to determine the best technology to be used to adhere the objectives of that sub project (Saeed, Jhanjhi et al. 2019). This phase determine the flow and management methodology of the project (Despa 2014).DesignThe Design of the project will continue from the planning phase and contains the layout of the application. This includes the ER-diagrams of the application (Chandra 2015). This phase concentrate on the graphic design of the project based on the type of application and provide an overview of the design layout to the project owner (Despa 2014). This will create an opportunity where the project owner can suggest changes.Development The Development phase consists of the actual code for the application to be built. The different coding languages are selected that are used in the development environment and implemented in the test environment by use of a protocol (Saeed, Jhanjhi et al. 2019). The project owner is updated on the progress of the project from the project manager.TestingTesting is the fifth stage where problems with the programming and design are identified and fixed. Testing methods known as unit testing are used to identify bugs within the project. The testing phase test the security, usability, design, and programming within the project (Despa 2014). Although the project owner needs to be present to identify some design problems.SetupThe application is launched in the Setup phase where it is available for the client to use. This phase installs that is required by the application such as source code, database, and the necessary APIs (Saeed, Jhanjhi et al. 2019). After the testing conditions are accepted the project can be deployed. After deployment, the project is tested again for any problems that may occur.MaintenanceThe Maintenance phase is respectively after the setup phase because it ensures the application is setup correctly and that no errors occur. This phases consists of maintaining the application aver time by upgrading the application with such as a feature or a change of design (Chandra 2015).These stages occur in the different methodologies in some way or another to proceed through the whole project development process. These methodologies will be discussed in the next section.MethodologiesAccording to Despa (2014): “A software development methodology is a set of rules and guidelines that are used in the process of researching, planning, designing, developing, testing, setup and maintaining a software product”. This section will discuss a few of the software development methodologies with their advantages and disadvantages.WaterfallThe waterfall methodology requires a phase within the project to be fully completed before moving on to the next phase. These phases must be performed consecutively (Adenowo and Adenowo 2013). The phases of the methodology is presented in the diagram below.Figure 3: Waterfall methodology by Despa (2014)AgileThe Agile methodology, also known as the Scrum methodology, prioritise the requirements and address these requirements within a four week sprint cycle process (Despa 2014). Within This methodology can be addressed by small, medium and large projects. The cycle consists of three main phases (Al-Saqqa, Sawalha et al. 2020). The first phase is where the objectives, and tools required are declared before a sprint begins. The second phase is the actual sprint that will commence for four weeks. Within this time a daily meeting is held to enhance communication between developers on the progress of the application. The third phase is when all the requirements of the sprint has been approved by the project manger and project owner. These sprints continue until all sub project are completed and can progress to the next phase of the development cycle. The diagram below gives a visual representation of the Agile(scrum) cycle.Figure 4: Agile (Scrum) MethodologyRapid application developmentIn contrast to outdated and time-consuming procedures, the rapid application development methodology creates a life cycle design to enable quick development with excellent quality. Within this methodology, sub-categories are created that are being work on simultaneously and results are reported to the project owner. This methodology can be used for small medium and large projects.Figure 5: Rapid Application Development MethodologyOpen source development The success rate of open source software development is high despite the lack of a project owner, a central authority, or any other kind of compensation for the project team (Despa 2014).Figure 6: Open Source Development MethodologyExtreme programmingThis methodology divides the project in sub-projects before the planning phase, and then start from there for every sun-project. It makes use of pair programming which improve the quality of code as one programmer constantly checks the code done by the other (Saeed, Jhanjhi et al. 2019).Figure 7: Extreme Programming MethodologyPrototypingPrototyping is a methodology that are dependent of the project owner. Every time the project has finished a feature of the application, the project owner delivers feedback and if changes needs to be made, the project returns to the planning phase (Carr and Verner 1997). Figure 8: Prototyping MethodologyComparison of methodologies These comparisons of methodologies are summarised by Despa (2014).Case StudiesFor this research, various companies were asked to answer a survey in relations to the change in their software development methodologies throughout the COVID-19 pandemic. The results of the surveys will be discussed in this section of the research.Company 1 (Entelect)This first company consists of more than 1000 employees. Results from the survey shows that the main methodology used is the Agile(scrum) methodology, but with some projects they make use of the Dev Ops Methodology. Before the COVID-19 pandemic this company worked mainly on the premise, but during the pandemic the company strictly worked remotely and continued so after the pandemic. This had and impact on the way the organisation conducted their project management. This proves that the pandemic had a positive impact on the software development, organisational productivity, project management productivity, software development success, personal productivity within the company. This had significant impact on the processes, technology, governance, within the project development and management team. Company 2 (BBD)This second company consists of 501-1000 employees. Results from the survey shows that the main methodology used is the Agile(scrum) methodology. Before the COVID-19 pandemic this company worked mainly on the premise, but during the pandemic the company strictly worked remotely and continued so after the pandemic. Although this had no impact on the way the company conducted their project management. This proves that the pandemic had a positive impact on the software development, organisational productivity, project management productivity, software development success, personal productivity within the company. This had significant impact on the people, governance, within the project development and management team. Company 3 (Singular Systems)This third company consists of 101-500 employees. Results from the survey shows that the main methodology used is the Agile(scrum) methodology. Before the COVID-19 pandemic this company worked mainly on the premise, but during the pandemic the company strictly worked remotely and continued so after the pandemic. This had an impact on the way the organisation conducted their project management. This proves that the pandemic had a positive impact on the software development, organisational productivity, software development success, personal productivity within the company. This had significant impact on the governance and strategy within the project development and management team but no impact on the people, processes, and technology.Company 4 (GateKeeper Technology)This fourth company consists of 1-100 employees. Results from the survey shows that the main methodology used is the Waterfall Methodology. This company worked on their premise from before the COVID-19 pandemic and continued throughout the pandemic with this approach. This had no impact on the way the organisation conducted their project management. This proves that the pandemic had a positive impact on the software development, organisational productivity, software development success, personal productivity within the company. This had significant impact on the people, processes, technology, governance and strategy, culture and maturity within the project development and management team. Comparison between companiesIn the table below, the different companies are shortly compared.Table 1: Comparisons between companiesExecutive summaryIn this research, it can be concluded that the most used Software Development Methodology is the Agile (scrum) Methodology. Although some companies use Waterfall and Dev Ops as well, it does not compare to the amount that makes use of Agile. The size of the company does not have an influence on the impact that COVID-19 had on the SDM of the companies. For all the companies interviewed, COVID-19 had a positive impact on their SDM as well as the success of the SDM. Although the COVID-19 pandemic had a negative impact on the world, these methodologies were so well designed that even within a pandemic, the company can not just maintain the quality of their work but even improve their success rate.Bibliography Adenowo, A. A. and B. A. Adenowo (2013). "Software engineering methodologies: a review of the waterfall model and object-oriented approach." International Journal of Scientific & Engineering Research 4(7): 427-434.	Al-Saqqa, S., et al. (2020). "Agile Software Development: Methodologies and Trends." International Journal of Interactive Mobile Technologies 14(11).	Ambler Scott, W. (1998). Process patterns: building large-scale systems using object technology, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.	Carr, M. and J. Verner (1997). "Prototyping and software development approaches." Department of Information Systems, City University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong: 319-338.	Cervone, H. F. (2011). "Understanding agile project management methods using Scrum." OCLC Systems & Services: International digital library perspectives.	Chandra, V. (2015). "Comparison between various software development methodologies." International Journal of Computer Applications 131(9): 7-10.	Charvat, J. (2003). "Project management methodologies: selecting, implementing, and supporting methodologies and processes for projects."	Despa, M. L. (2014). "Comparative study on software development methodologies." Database Systems Journal 5(3): 37-56.	Fitsilis, P. (2008). Comparing PMBOK and Agile Project Management software development processes. Advances in Computer and Information Sciences and Engineering, Springer: 378-383.	Guide, A. (2001). Project management body of knowledge (pmbok® guide). Project Management Institute.	Madampe, M. (2017). "Successful adoption of agile project management in software development industry." International Journal of Computer Science and Information Technology Research 5(4): 2327.	Saeed, S., et al. (2019). "Analysis of software development methodologies." International Journal of Computing and Digital Systems 8(5): 446-460.	Sharma, S., et al. (2012). "Agile processes and methodologies: A conceptual study." International journal on computer science and Engineering 4(5): 892.
Designing a dashboard with streaming sensor data to support decision-making.A Du Toit orcid.org/0000-0000-0000-000XSupervisor:	Prof Roelien GoedeGraduation: Student number: 31842534Table of contents (Heading 0)List of Tables (Heading 0)List of Figures (Heading 0)Chapter 1 IntroductionProblem statement IntroductionTechnology is growing rapidly while improving real-life applications with the use of the Internet of Things (IoT). The areas of application where machine sensor data can be implemented in a streaming database to support dashboard decision-making will be investigated in this study. People must desire to use the support and then act on the suggestions from computerized decision support to help them make logical decisions that are more likely to lead to the goal and positive results (Power 2016). With decision support, there needs to be an understanding of what data is generated and how to use it for important decision-making. Some areas of application are more difficult to improve decision-making with sensor data. These fields may include transportation, healthcare, energy management, and agriculture. In the healthcare sector, the biggest challenge is data fragmentation according to Dimitrov (2016).For an area of application, a certain machine sensor must be identified to be able to produce useful data for intelligent queries related to the area. The sensor data that will be generated will be stored in a database. From the database, visualization will be created to form an informative dashboard. In a study done by van Hillegersberg, Vroling et al. (2017), a MySQL server is used for the data storage platform, Python as the coding language to convert the CSV files into SQL files and Tableau for the creation of the dashboard of visualizations was used. This was done to improve decision-making in ocean race sailing with the use of sensor data. This study aims to identify and demonstrate the use of sensor data in a streaming database with visualizations via a dashboard.Background to studyThe purpose of this study is to identify different fields of application where sensor data can be used to improve decision-making about a topic within the field. These studies do not only improve certain tasks but also create new opportunities for future studies.To comply with the aim of the study, it will create a system that receives data from a sensor, transfers the data to a database and performs computations that will provide useful information, display the results on a dashboard with visualizations and use the dashboard to support decision making with the use of an IoT platform and web applications. IoT platforms can be used to connect to devices, secure a device, manage a device, assist with the data analysis, and make it possible for the developers to create code and applications that interact with the IoT system (Patt 2020). The use of an IoT platform or a web service makes it much easier for developers to concentrate on the more logical coding of the problem. Although one of the main challenges of using an IoT platform is the level of uncertainty with sensor data, Hussain, Nugent et al. (2021) stated that raw sensor data can be converted into meaningful information despite the levels of uncertainty and does provide a more rational approach to decision making. To complete the system, there are a variety of technologies that can be used to develop the system and all its components.Aspects to studyThis section will discuss the aspects of the study.SensorsThis study would make use of sensors to gain data from a specific field of application. The sensors will only be able to provide stream numerical values. There is a wide variety of sensor types that include, including proximity sensors, motion sensors, temperature sensors.Streaming databaseA streaming database is used to monitor and record the data received from certain events. The purpose of a streaming database is to collect, process, and possibly improve the quality and value of the data received. As the name indicates, a stream means that the data will consecutively be read as a sequence in a near real time experience.DashboardsA data dashboard is a tool for tracking, analysing, and displaying important performance indicators, measurements, and statistical results.Problem statementThe problem is that within certain fields of study, there are situations where it is difficult to determine a reliable solution for a problem. Therefore, data needs to be extracted from the field to support the decision-making. Currently, these types of systems make use of sensor data to complete the calculations and create a dashboard of visualizations to support the decision-making. The sensors provide valuable data, but the data needs to be modified to the correct format to be used in the solution (Lamshöft, Neubert et al. 2021). The sensor data will only be useful if it can be understood, processed,  efficiently stored to perform appropriate data analysis and create informative visualisations (van Hillegersberg, Vroling et al. 2017). For the data to be useful in visualisations, it needs to be stored in a server that transfers the data to a database. According to Wiska, Habibie et al. (2016), Kafka could serve as the server and transfer the data to the Impala database.  The data in the database can only be valuable if it is used to represent visualisations on a dashboard. In a study by van Hillegersberg, Vroling et al. (2017) they make use of Tableau the create data visualisations. This will provide new knowledge to the users and they can incorporate the results to improve their decision. Although these results are only a guideline and do not guarantee a perfect solution. Possible outcomes of not using sensor data in the designed system to improve decision making are as follows:Interpretation of situation may be incorrect and may result in choosing the worst possible solution.Too much data is available, and the users do not have the knowledge to determine the most reliable solution.This study will benefit others by advancing their understanding of why the use of sensor data will improve decision-making. There are so many areas of applications that can be improved but need new and meaningful development. According to Nieminen, Räty et al. (2009), by using a logical decision-making system (LDMS) that is supported by multiple sensor data, the system can define a reliable solution.The research question is composed as followed: Can sensor data that are stored in a streaming database, provide a dashboard with informative data that would support the decision making.Paradigmatic perspectiveA research paradigm can be described as the way the researcher sees the world and this can influence the process of how their research is approached. A paradigm is the combination of beliefs and principles that determine how the world is seen and interpreted and the way the researcher acts upon it (Kivunja and Kuyini 2017). The types of worldviews are identified as ontological, epistemological, methodological, and axiological which may have related paradigms namely, positivist, interpretive, critical and design research. Ontological views are concerned with the nature of the research area, while epistemological views are concerned with the relationship between the researcher and what can be known.  Methodological views are concerned with the methods by which the inquirer can obtain knowledge about the topic of interest and axiological views which is concerned with the things that the researcher values and the influence of those values on the research process (Adebesin, Kotzé et al. 2011). In the table below, a summary of the worldviews and paradigms is given.This study will make use of critical realism as the paradigm.Critical realismThe ontological perspective of critical realism describes the nature of reality and if the reality exists objectively or subjectively to the research study (Chua 1986). Ontology describes how the world exists independent of our sensors but each one has a subjective experience of the world. The layers that are focused on are the mechanics of the cause, the event that is caused and the experience of the event.The epistemological perspective of critical realism determines the way knowledge claims are presented, how they are evaluated for truth or validity, and how they are weighed against existing knowledge are all determined by one's epistemological beliefs. Theories regarding the nature of reality have been developed to explain observable events based on knowledge(Wynn Jr and Williams 2008). Epistemology is to understand the process from the sensor to the dashboard. Both epistemology and ontology perspective is relevant to critical realism.Research aim and objectivesThe aim of this study will be discussed in this section.Research aimThe aim of this study is to design and develop an artefact that implements a streaming database from sensor data to provide a user with useful information for decision support.Research objectivesThe research objectives of this study will be discussed in this section.Primary objectivesThe primary objective is to design and develop an artefact that implements a streaming database from sensor data to provide a user with useful information for decision support.Secondary objectives The following section discuss the secondary objectives.Theoretical objective The following theoretical objectives have been formulated to achieve the primary objective:•	To gain a shared understanding of how Design Science Research applies to the development of this study.•	To present an understanding of the sensors and their provided data along with their implementation.•	To present an understanding of the streaming databases and their implementation.•	To present an understanding of the dashboards and their implementation.•	To gain an understanding of existing projects that are similar.•	To analyse the effectiveness of DSR in relevant\similar problems.Empirical/practical objectives The following empirical objectives have been formulated in accordance with the primary objective:•	To build and implement the system software that will be able to retrieve data from a sensor.•	To build a system that can convert raw sensor data into the correct format to be stored in a database.•	To build and implement a system that can create a dashboard of information from the data stored in the database.•	To implement the system for evaluation.Study designThe methods that are applicable for this study are Design Science research and experimentation. According to Nunamaker Jr et al. (1990), there are four research strategies namely, theory building, experimentation, observation, and systems development, of which we will make use of experimentation.Research methodologyThe design science research methodology will be discussed.Design science researchDSR (design science research) is a problem-solving paradigm that aims to improve human knowledge via the production of artefacts (Hevner, March et al. 2004). Design science is used to solve problems with existing knowledge and then, therefore, creating new knowledge. In this study, an information technology artefact will provide a solution to a problem and will communicate the results in order to provide new knowledge. These actions comply with the requirements of DSR.  The research questions developed in this study can be addressed by the Design Science Research Methodology (DSRM) of Peffers, Tuunanen et al. (2007). Both Merwe, Gerber et al. (2019) and van Hillegersberg, Vroling et al. (2017) make use of this Design Science Research Methodology. The phases of DSRM are described below:Phase 1: Problem identification and motivationIn this phase, the problem statement is defined, and the artefact design is based on the problem statement. When the value of the solution is determined and proved reasonable, it means the artefact design complies with the objectives of the study, as well as motivates the researcher’s understanding of the problem.Phase 2: Define the objectives for a solutionThe objectives of the solution are determined in accordance with the problem definition. There are two types of objectives namely quantitative and qualitative objectives. To define the proper objectives, a wide range of knowledge of the problem and solutions to similar problems is needed. This way the researcher will have the proper knowledge to determine the best suitable solutions.Phase 3: Design and developmentThe desired functions that the artefact must be able to produce should be kept in mind when designing and developing the actual artefact. To proceed from the second phase to the current phase, knowledge about the technologies and the problem is required.Phase 4: DemonstrationThis phase requires evidence that the artefact does solve at least one of the problem statements. This evidence can be provided using experimentation, simulation, case study, or any other appropriate proof. To demonstrate the artefact correctly, proper knowledge is required of how to use the artefact to solve the problem.Phase 5: EvaluationTo evaluate the artefact, the results of the artefact demonstration are compared to the objectives stated for the solution. Through observation and measurement of the results, it is determined if the results would support the solution of the problem. To complete this phase, some knowledge is required about analysis techniques. The type of evaluation depends on the type of objectives defined in phase 2. When the evaluation phase is completed, the researcher can determine whether the study needs to go back to phase 3 to adjust for improvements otherwise, move on to the communication phase.Phase 6: CommunicationWhen applicable, inform researchers and other important audiences, such as practicing professionals, about the problem and its relevance, the artefact, its utility and originality, the quality of its design, and its efficacy. This communication can be in the form of a literature review. To complete this phase properly, knowledge of disciplinary culture is required.Approach to project management and project planScopeThe scope of the project is to identify and demonstrate an area of application that uses sensor data in a streaming database to create a dashboard that will support the decision-making.LimitationsThe limitations of the project can consist of the following:•	Not having the necessary sensors needed to complete the study•	The user does not have enough knowledge about the technology needed within the study•	The data received from the sensors are not accurate enough and cannot produce quality feedbackRisk analysisThe project's risk can be located in the artefact delivering erroneous data that can be misinterpreted as accurate data. The users of the artefact may also not be able to interpret the data visualizations in the correct manner which can lead to unreliable decisions.Project planChapter divisionThis section will be providing the outline of the different chapters that will be found in this study.Chapter 1: Introduction	In this chapter, a broad understanding of the study and all its aims and objectives that will be followed throughout the research.Chapter 2: Research Methodology This chapter will go into the study's research methodology, design science research, and how its procedures will shape the structure of the study.Chapter 3: Literature Review This is where the literature review will be done to address the different technologies available for the artefact. There will be focused on previous studies to determine the best suited technology and programming methods to provide a well-designed system.Chapter 4: Artefact DesignThis chapter will present the development of the artefact. This is where the artefact will be built and tested.Chapter 5: EvaluationThe artefact will be demonstrated and evaluated to determine the level of success and if there are parts that need more adjustments.Chapter 6: ConclusionThe conclusion of the artefact's creation, the research and information gained from this study, and lastly future prospects that may be studied will all be included in this chapter.Executive SummaryThe aim of this study is to design and develop an artefact that implements a streaming database from sensor data to provide a user with useful information for decision support. The technologies and methods used to develop and implement the system will be researched.Chapter 2 RESEARCH METHODOLOGYHeading 1 won’t print.  Don’t delete – doing so will lead to incorrect numbering.IntroductionIn order to do research, one must adhere to a framework of philosophies, use processes, methods, and techniques to verify the reliability and validity, and maintain objectivity and impartiality throughout the process(Kumar 2018).The aim of this study is to design and develop an artefact that creates a visual representation to support with relevant decision-making with the use of streaming sensor data into a real-time streaming database. This can only be achieved by using the most relevant research methodology. In this study, design science research (DSR).Research is known as the scientific search/investigation to gain knowledge on a specific topic (Kothari 2004). A research methodology has the role of creating a structure of how to conduct the research with its components, namely the approach to the research, strategy and paradigms (Al Kilani and Kobziev 2016). According to Wedawatta, Ingirige et al. (2011), identifying the most appropriate research methodology for the study, can improve the process of achieving the set objectives through data collection and analysis. Determining the correct research methodology is very important as it would assist in developing the best solution for the study.DSR (design science research) is a problem-solving paradigm that aims to improve human knowledge via the production of artefacts (Hevner, March et al. 2004). Design science is used to solve problems with existing knowledge and then, therefore, creating new knowledge. In this study, an information technology artefact will provide a solution to a problem and will communicate the results to provide new knowledge. DSR consists of different processes, activities and guidelines that will assist with the process of this study (Peffers, Tuunanen et al. 2007).The purpose of this chapter is to provide an overview of how the research methodology structure the process of completing this study. The cycle of design science research and all the steps necessary to complete the study will be discussed in this chapter.This chapter will discuss the research process in Section 2.2, research paradigms in Section 2.3 and the design of the study in Section 2.4. The overview of design science research will be discussed in Section 2.5 followed by Section 2.6 which concludes the chapter with a summary of the knowledge obtained throughout the chapter.Research paradigmsA research paradigm can be described as the way the researcher sees the world and this can influence the process of how their research is approached. A paradigm is the combination of beliefs and principles that determine how the world is seen and interpreted and the way the researcher acts upon it (Kivunja and Kuyini 2017). The types of philosophical assumptions are identified as ontological, epistemological, methodological, and axiological which may have related paradigms namely, positivist, interpretive, critical and design research. Ontological views are concerned with the nature of the research area, while epistemological views are concerned with the relationship between the researcher and what can be known.  Methodological views are concerned with the methods by which the inquirer can obtain knowledge about the topic of interest and axiological views which is concerned with the things that the researcher values and the influence of those values on the research process (Adebesin, Kotzé et al. 2011). In the table below, a summary of the worldviews and paradigms is given.Figure 3: Research paradigms and philosophical assumptionsAccording to Rehman and Alharthi (2016) there are three different approaches towards a study, namely positivism, interpretivist and critical theory. Weber (2010) thinks that design science research has the potential to be a new, cutting-edge research paradigm, despite the fact that it is not yet widely recognised as a research methodology. These paradigms have four different philosophical assumptions that guide the development of the study.  The positivist paradigm is predicated on the idea that there is only one distinct, observable reality that can be comprehended, identified, and measured(Park, Konge et al. 2020). Positivism is the name for the scientific study of the social world (Rehman and Alharthi 2016). Positivism is a philosophy that states that only information that has been verified via observation and measurement can be trusted. In positivism the researcher conducts the research objectively with a prediction of the limited data that they collected (Park, Konge et al. 2020).  Positivists have an inflexible mind-set because they think everything can be measured and calculated and may disregard unexplained events. In general, positivists prefer quantitative research techniques, whereas interpretivists prefer qualitative research techniques (Weber 2010). According to Rogers (2020) interpretivists can be described as the opposite of positivism because the researcher shapes the research with their subjective view and observe multiple realities. Interpretivists believe it is impossible to see reality without letting one's own worldview, conceptions, and background influence it and as a result, actual reality can only be discovered, not made (Rehman and Alharthi 2016). Researchers that practice interpretivist seek to acquire data using qualitative techniques because they prefer to utilize their own data over information from statistical sources(Thanh and Thanh 2015).Critical Theory, stated by Horkheimer (1972) is only acknowledged if the research is simultaneously explanatory, practical and normative. Critical theory is a paradigm that aims to criticize the status in society of methodologies whether qualitative or quantitative and provide knowledge on their claim to be objectively (Rehman and Alharthi 2016). According to Patton (2002) the goal of critical theory is to change an improve society and not just to describe and comprehend it.Design science research is commonly used in engineering and computer science fields of research (Hevner and Chatterjee 2010). The purpose of design science research is to provide information about how objects should be built or structured under the influence of humans in order to accomplish the intended set of goals (Vom Brocke, Hevner et al. 2020).Research processThe research process is made up of a number of processes or activities needed to carry out research efficiently and result scientific conclusions. DSR is suited for this research since creating and designing an artefact will contribute to outcomes for the issue statement and give relevant methods for a solution. Design science in information systems make use of artefacts to solve real world problems(Prat, Comyn-Wattiau et al. 2014). The problem statement of this study is to determine if sensor data that are stored in a streaming database, provide a dashboard with informative data that would support the decision making. DSR will be discussed in depth in the next section of the chapter.Design science researchDesigning and creating an artefact is a key element of DSR, but the needs of that artefact must be understood in terms of the environment in which it functions(Gregor and Jones 2007). The artefact must address the problem stated in the study. The artefact has two main phases namely the development phase where research is done to gain more knowledge about the problem and evaluation phase where the result of the artefact is evaluated to determine the best solution for the problem (Peffers, Tuunanen et al. 2007).Figure 4: DSR process cycleDesign science research cycleThe research cycle is derived from the framework by (Hevner, March et al. 2004). The Relevance Cycle connects the activities of design science with the context of the research environment. The Rigor Cycle establishes a link between the design science activities and the body of information, experience, and competence that underpins the research environment. The main design cycle iterates between the main tasks of creating and assessing design objects and research methods (Hevner, March et al. 2004).Figure 5: DSR design cycleDesign science frameworkThe conceptual framework of design-science paradigms for comprehending, conducting, and reviewing information systems research (Hevner, March et al. 2004). These paradigms are positioned and contrasted using this framework. Figure 6: DSR frameworkDesign science process modelThe DS process includes six steps: problem identification and motivation, definition of the objectives for a solution, design and development, demonstration, evaluation, and communication (Peffers, Tuunanen et al. 2007).Activity 1: Problem identification and motivationIn this phase, the problem statement is defined, and the artefact design is based on the problem statement. When the value of the solution is determined and proved reasonable, it means the artefact design complies with the objectives of the study, as well as motivates the researcher’s understanding of the problem.Activity 2: Define the objectives for a solutionThe objectives of the solution are determined in accordance with the problem definition. There are two types of objectives namely quantitative and qualitative objectives. To define the proper objectives, a wide range of knowledge of the problem and solutions to similar problems is needed. This way the researcher will have the proper knowledge to determine the best suitable solutions.Activity 3: Design and developmentThe desired functions that the artefact must be able to produce should be kept in mind when designing and developing the actual artefact. To proceed from the second phase to the current phase, knowledge about the technologies and the problem is required.Activity 4: DemonstrationThis phase requires evidence that the artefact does solve at least one of the problem statements. This evidence can be provided using experimentation, simulation, case study, or any other appropriate proof. To demonstrate the artefact correctly, proper knowledge is required of how to use the artefact to solve the problem.Activity 5: EvaluationTo evaluate the artefact, the results of the artefact demonstration are compared to the objectives stated for the solution. Through observation and measurement of the results, it is determined if the results would support the solution of the problem. To complete this phase, some knowledge is required about analysis techniques. The type of evaluation depends on the type of objectives defined in phase 2. When the evaluation phase is completed, the researcher can determine whether the study needs to go back to phase 3 to adjust for improvements otherwise, move on to the communication phase.Activity 6: CommunicationWhen applicable, inform researchers and other important audiences, such as practicing professionals, about the problem and its relevance, the artefact, its utility and originality, the quality of its design, and its efficacy. This communication can be in the form of a literature review. To complete this phase properly, knowledge of disciplinary culture is required.Design science research guidelinesIn DSR Guidelines is provided within the evaluation phase (Hevner, March et al. 2004). These guidelines are discussed below:Table 2: DSR guidelinesExecutive summaryThe objective of this chapter is to provide an overview of how the research methodology structure the process of completing this study. This objective was met by giving an overview of the cycle of design science research and all the steps necessary to complete the study. DSR was used to design and develop the research study and to build an artefact that produce a viable solution. The next chapter will discuss the technological components to use in the research project in a literature review.Chapter 3 Literature reviewHeading 1 won’t print.  Don’t delete – doing so will lead to incorrect numbering.IntroductionIn this study, several technologies are needed to perform necessary calculation to achieve the objectives set (Mekonnen, Namuduri et al. 2019). The aim of this study is to design and develop an artefact that creates a visual representation to support with relevant decision-making with the use of streaming sensor data into a real-time streaming database.Sensors is part of our everyday life. It creates the world as we know it. Sensors are used to gain data from the environment to assist decision-making regardless the importance of the decision (Mekonnen, Namuduri et al. 2019). A temperature and humidity sensor are used to detect the weather, which can be used to decide whether a warm coat is needed. According to Vetelino and Reghu (2017), the human body can also be classified as a group of sensors such as sound sensitivity sensor as the ear, and the eye that can be classified as a dynamic range sensor. All these human-sensors relate to the five senses of a human body namely vision, hearing, tasting, smell and feel. The data from these sensors are read into a streaming database.The rapid growth of technology where many resources produce data continuously, streaming databases is becoming more frequently used (Gama and Rodrigues 2007). A streaming database is used to monitor and record the data received from certain events. The purpose of a streaming database is to collect, process, and possibly improve the quality and value of the data received. As the name indicates, a stream means that the data will consecutively be read as a sequence in a near real time experience (Chandrasekaran and Franklin 2002). From the streaming database, the data is used to create a dashboard.Dashboards are diagnostic tools created to offer rapid summaries of a company's performance to busy management (Velcu-Laitinen and Yigitbasioglu 2012). Dashboards may be thought of as a collection of individual decision support systems that focus on integration and alignment at the organizational level as opposed to the level of an individual activity (Pauwels, Ambler et al. 2009).The objective of the chapter is to give an overview of the types of technology components that are used for this study. In Section 3.2 Sensors will be discussed which include the properties of a sensor. Section 3.3 gives an overview of the streaming database component. The dashboard component will be discussed in Section 3.4.SensorA sensor can respond, measure, or detect a physical property within the physical environment. This study would make use of sensors to gain data from a specific field of application. A sensor is a device that recognizes or quantifies a physical characteristic and records, displays, or reacts to it by sending an impulse as a result. To provide a signal that may be electrically recorded, it translates a physical specification (such as temperature, speed, or distance). In Table 3 a variety of areas where sensors can be implemented to support decision-making is listed. (Vetelino and Reghu 2017). Figure 3 indicates the development process of a sensor.Table 3: Areas in need of sensorsFigure 8: Sensor process cycleSensor propertiesThe table below describe the properties of a sensor (Vetelino and Reghu 2017).Table 4: Sensor propertiesTypes of sensorsThe range of sensors are expanded significantly and can be divided into five core category classification systems. These classifications are discussed below:Active and Passive SensorsActive sensors depend on an outside power source to function. In a Wireless Sensor Network (WSN), the need for low power sensors is important to provide the system with low power consumption (Pereira, Correia et al. 2018). Examples of these type of sensors include GPS sensors and radar sensors. Self-generating or passive sensors produce their own electric signal without the need for an external power source. Thermal sensors and metal detecting sensors are examples of passive sensors.Contact and Non-Contact SensorsAs the name indicates, contact sensors need direct physical contact to produce useable data. This can be presented in the form of a touch sensors and pressure sensors. Non-contact sensors don't need any physical touch to gain information. Infrared thermometers are a great example, though it does not need physical touch to gain information.Absolute and Relative SensorsBy offering an absolute interpretation of its stimuli, absolute sensors live up to their name. A thermistor can measure the exact temperature reading. A fixed or variable measurement is measured using relative sensors. A thermocouple, where the temperature difference is measured, not the actual temperature.Analog and Digital SensorsContinuous analogue output signals proportional to its measurement are produced by analogue sensors. Accelerometers, pressure sensors, light, and sound sensors are viable examples. Digital sensors translate the data transfer into a digital format (also known as electronic or electrochemical sensors). Examples include digital accelerometers, moisture, and temperature sensors.Miscellaneous SensorsThis category is created for the remaining sensors that does not fit into the other category.Sensor data processWithin a measurement system, the sensor is the heart which consists of different roles to fulfil. In Figure 4 the diagram illustrates the process of how the data is obtained from a sensor. Firstly, the environment which is intended to be measured is located and the sensor is placed within. Secondly, the data from the sensor is fed to an appropriate signal conditioner which modifies the data to a form of digital output. Obtaining the data from the sensor needs to be transferred to a place where decision can be made from the results (Ripka and Tipek 2013)Figure 9: Sensor data process.This process can be used with multiple sensors, depending on the environment and problem within the environment would determine which sensor is more suitable. This process needs to be done correctly because the quality of the data can drastically change the outcomes of the research on result in an incorrect business decision (Klein and Lehner 2009). Examples of sensors is listed in the Table 5.Table 5: Example of sensorsSensors are now used in practically every aspect of life because to technological improvement and size reduction. Due to the lack of comprehensive information, choosing sensors and effectively using them to address problems has proven to be a difficult task for new users (Abbasi, Islam et al. 2014). The sensor data is then streamed into a streaming database to store the historical data and create a dashboard to support the decision-making process.Streaming databaseStreaming data works differently from traditional data, since streaming data is not stored and retrieved when needed, but instead it constantly streams the data through a network (Tatbul 2010). Although, the fact that the data is only stored for a short period which can lead to a data overloading problem (Sow, Biem et al. 2010). In this study a streaming database will be used to transport the data from a sensor to a dashboard to create a visual representation to support decision-making. In Table 5, the differences between traditional and stream data processing is summarised (Gama and Rodrigues 2007).Table 6: Differences between traditional and stream data processingThe differences between traditional and stream processing is actually quite the opposite in every aspect. The architecture of a database management system consists of several stages (Golab and Özsu 2010). Figure 10: Architecture of a database management systemThe left side indicates how streaming inputs is received by a buffer/input monitor. The input monitor collects the data and send it to the working storage where it will be stored temporarily. The working storage may store some metadata on the local storage that can be updated but only the working storage can be used for query processing. In theory, each operator in the pipeline takes a data stream and then outputs a changed stream for the next operator to ingest. As the workload and input rates vary, the query processor may interact with the input monitor and modify the query plans accordingly. Results may also be broadcast to programs that process events or notify users (Golab and Özsu 2010).The architecture of this research project is designed as follows.Figure 11: Architecture of artefactData stream processing classesIn this section the tasks of each class of processing streaming data will be discussed.Data managementThe handling, querying, scheduling, and storing of data streams produced by sensor networks fall under this category of processing activities (Gama and Rodrigues 2007). In sensor networks, spatial and temporal properties are crucial. The location and timing of the sensor reading are critical for sensor network applications.Certain queries require more energy than others. This is entirely determined of the environment the sensors are placed.In-network data processing is more feasible than transferring the data streams from a different site in terms of bandwidth and energy constraints.In sensor networks, the computational model is called distributed query processing.Data miningOver the past few years, mining data streams has been an active study field.The difficulties of mining streaming data have been addressed in many ways via the use of sampling, load shedding, and approximation approaches (Gama and Rodrigues 2007). The differences between traditional data stream mining and sensor network streaming mining are discussed.Due to comparable environmental conditions across wide areas, data duplication in sensor networks is frequent and is addressed by the data mining technique. The problem of data duplication has not been addressed by traditional data stream mining.Data mining on multiple levels is crucial in sensor networks. Individual node-generated data streams can create completely distinct local models from the global model. This has not been addressed by traditional data stream mining.Sensor network data streams are seen as being noisy. Data cleansing is necessary in order to create trustworthy data mining models. To create an accurate model, real-time data cleansing is necessary.Data mining in sensor networks requires adaptation to the resources that are now accessible. The data mining method need to be flexible enough to accommodate the present state of resource availability. This has not been addressed by traditional data stream mining.Challenges of streaming databasesThe challenges of streaming databases are discussed in this section.Energy efficiencyTechniques for data handling and mining in sensor networks should be energy-conscious. It is necessary to develop an energy-efficient resource scheduling and optimization framework in large data stream computing systems to achieve great energy efficiency and rapid reaction times (Sun, Zhang et al. 2015).Communication efficiencySensor networks need bandwidth-constrained wireless connections to function. The widespread use of sensor networks poses a significant problem for data processing (Gama and Rodrigues 2007). It has also been suggested to employ data-reduction methods like Principal Component Analysis (PCA) to improve communication (Kargupta, Puttagunta et al. 2006).Processing powerThe processing capability of sensor nodes is insufficient for complex computational activities.Memory sizeData must dwell in memory for processing in a broad variety of classical processing methods. These strategies are inappropriate for sensor network applications due to the restricted memory available on sensor nodes. This problem is resolved by the use of data stream processing.ScalabilityTo process massive quantities data streams, data processing systems should be scalable.Fault toleranceFault tolerance is a critical problem since sensor networks are being widely deployed to fulfil application requirements. Various techniques have been addressed (Koushanfar, Potkonjak et al. 2002).The focus of database streams has been on systems that analyse freshly arriving data and stream it continually to the user in real-time (Chandrasekaran and Franklin 2002). The data within the streaming database is used to create a visual representation such as a dashboard. The dashboard will then support the decision-making process.DashboardDashboards are visual representations of data. A data dashboard is a tool for tracking, analysing, and displaying important performance indicators, measurements, and statistical results (Eckerson 2010). Dashboards are anticipated to enhance intelligence and take advantage of human perceptual talents to better decision making (Yigitbasioglu and Velcu 2012). Dashboards have grown in from their original use of performance monitoring to more sophisticated analytical uses, adding additional elements like scenario analysis, drill down capabilities, and display format flexibility (Velcu-Laitinen and Yigitbasioglu 2012). The architecture of how the data are transported to create a dashboard are shown in Figure 12.Figure 12: Architecture of dashboardThe development stage of a streaming database consists of Stage 1: Selecting the key metric, Stage 2: Populating the dashboard with data, Stage 3: Establishing relationships between the dashboard items, Stage 4: Forecasting and scenarios, and Stage 5: Connecting to financial consequences.Dashboard purposesAccording to Pauwels, Ambler et al. (2009) dashboards have at least 4 different purposes namely monitoring, consistency, planning, and communication. Monitoring is the most fundamental process of regularly assessing measurements that call for remedial action. The measuring practices utilized across departments and business divisions must be consistent. Since scenario analysis is one of its characteristics, dashboards may also be utilized for planning. dashboard communicates to its stakeholders both performance and the values of a business.Dashboard featuresThe features that dashboards have to offer consists of real-time notifications, drill-down capabilities, scenario analysis, presentation flexibility, and external benchmarking (Velcu-Laitinen and Yigitbasioglu 2012). So that corrective actions may be initiated as soon as the measurements diverge from pre-set objectives, real-time warnings and alerts are required. The drill down functionality would enable users to modify data for a more in-depth study, without which customers would be compelled to go to another reporting platform. When the dashboard is meant to be used as a planning tool, scenario analysis may be a beneficial component. flexibility in presentation, or the capacity to show facts in tables or graphs. External benchmarking can provide consumers with useful information about how well the organization is doing in comparison to its rivals.Examples of dashboardsThis section provides different examples of dashboards. Figure 15: Example of dashboardAccording to Khairat, Dukkipati et al. (2018) visualisation dashboard solutions increase situation awareness, usability, and navigation while reducing time spent on data collection. Decisions must be based on accurate information that is current, readily available, and timely, as well as on an analysis of this information (Muntean, Sabau et al. 2010). It has been shown that dashboards are useful tools for showing data to decision-makers.Executive summaryThe objective of the chapter was to give an overview of the types of technology components. It focused on sensors, streaming database, and dashboards. For each component the understanding of its use was comprehended. The properties of sensors have an impact on the data quality which can disturb the results of the project. The architecture of a streaming database indicate how this project will be designed. The dashboard determines that a valid decision-making approached would benefit from it. The next chapter introduces the life cycle of the project.Bibliography Abbasi, A. Z., et al. (2014). "A review of wireless sensors and networks' applications in agriculture." Computer Standards & Interfaces 36(2): 263-270.	Adebesin, F., et al. (2011). "Design research as a framework to evaluate the usability and accessibility of the digital doorway."	Al Kilani, M. and V. Kobziev (2016). "An overview of research methodology in information system (IS)." Open Access Library Journal 3(11): 1-9.	Anik, M. T. H., et al. (2020). On the effect of aging on digital sensors. 2020 33rd International Conference on VLSI Design and 2020 19th International Conference on Embedded Systems (VLSID), IEEE.	Chandrasekaran, S. and M. J. Franklin (2002). Streaming queries over streaming data. VLDB'02: Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Very Large Databases, Elsevier.	Chua, W. F. (1986). "Radical developments in accounting thought." Accounting review: 601-632.	Dimitrov, D. V. (2016). "Medical internet of things and big data in healthcare." Healthcare informatics research 22(3): 156-163.	Eckerson, W. W. (2010). Performance dashboards: measuring, monitoring, and managing your business, John Wiley & Sons.	Gama, J. and P. P. Rodrigues (2007). Data stream processing. Learning from Data Streams, Springer: 25-39.	Golab, L. and M. T. Özsu (2010). "Data stream management." Synthesis Lectures on Data Management 2(1): 1-73.	Gregor, S. and D. Jones (2007). The anatomy of a design theory, Association for Information Systems.	Hevner, A. and S. Chatterjee (2010). Design science research in information systems. Design research in information systems, Springer: 9-22.	Hevner, A., et al. (2004). "Design science research in information systems." MIS quarterly 28(1): 75-105.	Hevner, A. R., et al. (2004). "Design science in information systems research." MIS quarterly: 75-105.	Horkheimer, M. (1972). Critical theory: Selected essays, A&C Black.	Hussain, T., et al. (2021). "A Risk-Based IoT Decision-Making Framework Based on Literature Review with Human Activity Recognition Case Studies." Sensors 21(13): 4504.	Kargupta, H., et al. (2006). "On-board vehicle data stream monitoring using minefleet and fast resource constrained monitoring of correlation matrices." New Generation Computing 25(1): 5-32.	Khairat, S. S., et al. (2018). "The impact of visualization dashboards on quality of care and clinician satisfaction: integrative literature review." JMIR human factors 5(2): e9328.	Kivunja, C. and A. B. Kuyini (2017). "Understanding and applying research paradigms in educational contexts." International Journal of higher education 6(5): 26-41.	Klein, A. and W. Lehner (2009). "Representing data quality in sensor data streaming environments." Journal of Data and Information Quality (JDIQ) 1(2): 1-28.	Kothari, C. R. (2004). Research methodology: Methods and techniques, New Age International.	Koushanfar, F., et al. (2002). Fault tolerance techniques for wireless ad hoc sensor networks. SENSORS, 2002 IEEE, IEEE.	Kumar, R. (2018). Research methodology: A step-by-step guide for beginners, Sage.	Lamshöft, K., et al. (2021). Information Hiding in Cyber Physical Systems: Challenges for Embedding, Retrieval and Detection using Sensor Data of the SWAT Dataset. Proceedings of the 2021 ACM Workshop on Information Hiding and Multimedia Security.	Mekonnen, Y., et al. (2019). "Machine learning techniques in wireless sensor network based precision agriculture." Journal of the Electrochemical Society 167(3): 037522.	Merwe, A. v. d., et al. (2019). Guidelines for conducting design science research in information systems. Annual Conference of the Southern African Computer Lecturers' Association, Springer.	Muntean, M., et al. (2010). Performance dashboards for universities. Proceedings of the 2nd international conference on manufacturing engineering, quality and production systems.	Nieminen, M., et al. (2009). Multi-sensor logical decision making in the single location surveillance point system. 2009 Fourth International Conference on Systems, IEEE.	Park, Y. S., et al. (2020). "The positivism paradigm of research." Academic Medicine 95(5): 690-694.	Patt, M. K. (2020). "IoT platforms: How they work and how to choose one." TechTarget.	Patton, M. Q. (2002). Qualitative research & evaluation methods, sage.	Pauwels, K., et al. (2009). "Dashboards as a service: why, what, how, and what research is needed?" Journal of service research 12(2): 175-189.	Peffers, K., et al. (2007). "A design science research methodology for information systems research." Journal of management information systems 24(3): 45-77.	Pereira, F., et al. (2018). Comparison of active and passive sensors for IoT applications. 2018 IEEE Wireless Power Transfer Conference (WPTC), IEEE.	Power, D. J. (2016). "Data science: supporting decision-making." Journal of Decision systems 25(4): 345-356.	Prat, N., et al. (2014). "Artifact evaluation in information systems design-science research–a holistic view."	Rehman, A. A. and K. Alharthi (2016). "An introduction to research paradigms." International Journal of Educational Investigations 3(8): 51-59.	Ripka, P. and A. Tipek (2013). Modern sensors handbook, John Wiley & Sons.	Rogers, J. (2020). "The Interpretivist Lens – What Design Study as a Method of Inquiry Can Teach Us." Visualization design lab 	Sow, D., et al. (2010). Body sensor data processing using stream computing. Proceedings of the international conference on Multimedia information retrieval.	Sun, D., et al. (2015). "Re-Stream: Real-time and energy-efficient resource scheduling in big data stream computing environments." Information Sciences 319: 92-112.	Tatbul, N. (2010). Streaming data integration: Challenges and opportunities. 2010 IEEE 26th International Conference on Data Engineering Workshops (ICDEW 2010), IEEE.	Thanh, N. C. and T. Thanh (2015). "The interconnection between interpretivist paradigm and qualitative methods in education." American journal of educational science 1(2): 24-27.	van Hillegersberg, J., et al. (2017). "Improving Decision Making in Ocean Race Sailing using Sensor Data."	Velcu-Laitinen, O. and O. M. Yigitbasioglu (2012). "The Use of Dashboards in Performance Management: Evidence from Sales Managers." International Journal of Digital Accounting Research 12.	Vetelino, J. and A. Reghu (2017). Introduction to sensors, CRC press.	Vom Brocke, J., et al. (2020). Design Science Research. Cases, Springer.	Weber, S. (2010). "Design science research: Paradigm or approach?".	Wedawatta, G., et al. (2011). "Case study as a research strategy: Investigating extreme weather resilience of construction SMEs in the UK."	Wiska, R., et al. (2016). Big sensor-generated data streaming using kafka and impala for data storage in wireless sensor network for co 2 monitoring. 2016 International Workshop on Big Data and Information Security (IWBIS), IEEE.	Wynn Jr, D. E. and C. K. Williams (2008). "Critical realm-based explanatory case study research in information systems."	Yigitbasioglu, O. M. and O. Velcu (2012). "A review of dashboards in performance management: Implications for design and research." International Journal of Accounting Information Systems 13(1): 41-59.
