What is a neural network?Neural networks constitute a subset of machine learning and provide the basis of deep learning techniques (Education, 2020). Neural networks are inspired by the human brain and imitates how real neurons communicate with one another (Trask, 2019), and is also sometimes referred to  as Artificial neural networks. Figure  - AI Layers (Abdul Kadir et al., 2022)As shown above, Neural Network is a subset of Deep learning, which is a subset of machine learning  (Abdul Kadir et al., 2022). Machine learning have different types of learning, but according to Trask (2019), the two main types of learning is Supervised Learning and Unsupervised Learning. Supervised Learning:Supervised learning aims to map inputs to outputs based on input-output pairings (Mahesh, 2020). Input and training output data are labelled, and the input-output training sample is called labelled training data (Liu & Wu, 2012). Supervised learning uses classification and regression methods (Ghahramani, 2003). Unsupervised LearningUnsupervised learning uses unlabelled, unstructured noise to discover patterns in data (Ghahramani, 2003). Unsupervised learning clusters data using machine learning methods (Cios et al., 2007), like clustering the data into groups (Trask, 2019). Neural Network Layers and TermsSeveral components and terminologies must be defined before understanding neural networks. Most neural networks consists out of at least three types of layers, namely: Input layer, hidden layer and the output layer (Maind & Wankar, 2014). The following figure shows an example of a simple neural network consisting of the three layers:LayersInput LayerThe input layer is the layer that receives the initial data for the neural network (Ognjanovski, 2019). Hidden LayerMost calculations happen in the hidden layer. It is situated between the input layer and the output layer (Ognjanovski, 2019). Inputs to the network undergo nonlinear transformations via the hidden layers, through the use of weights and an activation function. Output LayerThe output layer is the final layer in the neural network where the predictions are obtained. The goal of the neural network is to train the network so that the output layer is the same as the output dataset (Trask, 2019). TermsWeightsWeights are parameters that transforms the input data within the networks hidden layers. Throughout the machine learning process, the weight values will change in order to find the perfect correlation between the input and output data. Activation FunctionThe nodes in the neural network can be seen as neurons, and the activation function is a function that decides whether or not these neurons should be activated (Baheti, 2022).  Activation functions are very important in neural networks, because without these functions the output signal would be a simple linear function which cannot learn and recognise complex mappings (Sharma et al., 2017).Forward PropagationA neural network produces predictions based on input data. This is because activations are propagated forward over the network (Trask, 2019).Backward PropagationBackpropagation is one of the most important concepts in neural networks. Simply put, backpropagation is the method of changing the weights of a neural network based on the error, in order to make the model more reliable (Johnson, 2022). How does a neural network work?Simply put, a neural network finds the input-output correlation. This is done by taking all the previous terms and layers into consideration. The following explanation is how I understand neural network training, with the help of Trask (2019), and all other sources used throughout this report: Firstly, an input layer receives input values, and an output layer predicts the final output. In-between these two layers is hidden layers that performs the computations. The amount of hidden layers and the amount of neurons/nodes each layer has, is up to the programmer, seeing as there is no specific answer. The neurons from one layer is connected to the neurons from the next layer through channels. Each channels is assignment a value named weights. The input value is multiplied with these weights and their sum is send to the “ReLU” function also, known as the activation function. In an activation function, if the value is larger than 0, that value is returned, if it is lower, 0 is returned. This means the activation function decides which neurons is activated. An activated neuron transmits data to the neurons of the next layer through the channels mentioned previously. The data is propagated through the network and this is called forward propagation. In the output layer the neuron with the highest value fires and determines the output or prediction. The predicted output is compared with the actual output, and an error is determined by subtracting these two outputs with one another. The delta is the measure of how much higher or lower you want a node’s value to be to predict more accurately.Backpropagation is used to adjust the weights through the use of the delta values of previous layers and an alpha value, also known as the learning rate. Forward and backpropagation is repeated iteratively to change the weights to find the best correlation between the input layer and the output layer where the error is as close as possible to 0. Training a model and finding the right amount of layers and nodes to use in each layer can takes weeks, months and maybe even years. It is a trial and error process. BibliographyAbdul Kadir, N.H., Abdul Wahab, N.H., Meng, G.C., Lim, C., Sayed Aluwee, S.A.Z.B., Bajuri, M.N. & Harun, S.Z. 2022. A near infrared image of forearm subcutaneous vein extraction using u-net. In. Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Electrical, Control and Computer Engineering. Springer. pp. 1093-1103.Baheti, P. 2022. Activation functions in neural networks. 2022/09/26.Cios, K.J., Swiniarski, R.W., Pedrycz, W. & Kurgan, L.A. 2007. Unsupervised learning: Clustering. In. Data Mining. Springer. pp. 257-288.Education, I.C. 2020. Neural network.  Date of access: 2022/09/26.Ghahramani, Z. 2003. Unsupervised learning. In. Summer school on machine learning. Springer. pp. 72-112.Johnson, D. 2022. Back propagation in neural network: Machine learning algorithm.  Date of access: 2022/09/26.Liu, Q. & Wu, Y. 2012. Supervised learning. Encyclopedia of the Sciences of Learning:3243–3245. 10.1007/978-1-4419-1428-6_451Mahesh, B. 2020. Machine learning algorithms-a review. International Journal of Science and Research (IJSR).[Internet], 9:381-386. Maind, S.B. & Wankar, P. 2014. Research paper on basic of artificial neural network. International Journal on Recent and Innovation Trends in Computing and Communication, 2(1):96-100. Ognjanovski, G. 2019. Everything you need to know about neural networks and backpropagation.  Date of access: 2022/09/26.Sharma, S., Sharma, S. & Athaiya, A. 2017. Activation functions in neural networks. towards data science, 6(12):310-316. Trask, A.W. 2019. Grokking deep learning. United States of America: Manning Publications Co. .
Project Management Methodologies and FailuresH.L Strydom orcid.org/0000-002-2362-6327Lecturer:	Prof. Neels KrugerStudent number:31597793Table of contentsList of TablesList of Figures AbBreviations Table 1 - Abbreviations DefinitionsAbstractProjects management has been around for thousands of years. There are many project management methodologies that can be used in projects. A question that needs to be answered if whether there is a project management methodology that achieves the 3 goals of a successful project and will still be applicable in the next three to five years. In this research paper there will be looked at a governance framework, body of knowledge, and 3 methodologies. A discussion is done about the structure of COBIT and PMBOK, and the importance of stakeholders, portfolios, programs, and projects. Afterwards are looked at three methodologies. A SWOT analysis is done on all three and determined that all three can be implemented to achieve the goals of a project, and still be applicable over the next three to five years.KeywordsCOBIT, PMBOK, SWOT Analysis, Agile, Waterfall, PRINCE2  Chapter 1 - IntroductionIntroductionThis research project seeks to identify the best relevant project management methodologies that can be utilized over the next three to five years, and to determine whether these methodologies really is applicable over this time period. Internal and external client requirements and  the forces the client represent needs to be considered. Organisations, portfolios, programs, and project managers will be discussed, and it will be made clear how it would maximise the opportunities and minimise the threats of the project management methodologies. There will also be looked at governance frameworks and bodies of knowledge that comes with these methodologies, and that also needs to be addressed in order for a project to be called a success. This Chapter will cover the background to the study, the problem statement, aims, objectives, provisional Chapter divisions, and finally a summary. Background to studyProjects management has been done for thousands of years. But only in the 1900’s, was project management formally defined and certain criteria had to be met (Kwak, 2005). Since then, numerous project management methodologies were created, each used for different projects. A lot of projects fail, even though these methodologies are followed perfectly. In order for a project to be called a success, three  goals needs to be met, namely: scope, time, and cost goals, also known as the budget. These are often called the triple constraints (Somers and Nelson, 2001). A study was done, and it was determined that 16.2% of the projects part of the study has met these requirements. The same study showed that 31% of these projects outright failed (Alami, 2016). Using this information and statistics, it is clear that a large portion of projects and ICT innovations face shorter life spans or is rapidly replaced or declared obsolete. Problem statementAs stated in the study background, a large portion of projects fail, even though the methodologies are followed precisely. The question that needs to be answered, is whether projects fail because of outdated methodologies, or are there other underlying factors. In this research project, a study will be done to determine whether there are project management methodologies that can be used over the next three to five years. Aims and ObjectivesAimThe main aim of this project is to determine if there are project management methodologies that will be applicable over the next three to five yearsObjectivesIn order for the aim to be reached, certain objectives needs to be met:Governance FrameworkA clear governance framework should be chosen and discussed that will be used with certain methodologies. This will help with the audit of IT projects and making sure that best practice is achieved. Bodies of knowledgeThese are standard guidelines for project management, making it easier for projects to be managed correctly. There are a few bodies of knowledge that can be used with project management methodologies, but only one will be chosen for the purpose of this study. MethodologiesA few project management methodologies will be named and discussed according to the governance framework and body of knowledge. A Strength, weakness, opportunity, and threats analysis, more commonly known as the SWOT Analysis, will be done on each methodology to determine which of these methodologies are applicable for the next three to five years.Provisional Chapter DivisionChapter 1 - IntroductionChapter 2 - Literature StudyChapter 3 - ConclusionChapter 4 - RecommendationBibliography Chapter 2  - Literature reviewHeading 1 won’t print.  Don’t delete – doing so will lead to incorrect numbering.IntroductionSeveral factors must be reviewed to determine whether there is a project management methodology that can be employed within the next three to five years. For the project to be adequately audited, there must be a governance framework in place, as well as the appropriate knowledge areas and processes given by a body of knowledge. Governance FrameworkIntroductionThere are several governance frameworks, each with different definitions, scopes, approaches, goals, and focusses. Choosing a governance framework is very important, but it is more important to choose the right framework for the goals you want to achieve. Governance ensures that stakeholder needs are met, project direction and decision making is clear, and it is easy to monitor performance (ISACA, 2019).Some governance frameworks that are normally used in organisations are “Information Technology Infrastructure Library”, “Control Objectives for Information and Related Technologies” and “International Organization for Standardization”. From herein out it will be referred to as ITIL, COBIT and ISO. ITIL’s main focus is on IT service Management, and has a service management lifecycle (Dabade, 2012). COBIT is a framework, created by ISACA, that contains the best practices for IT. It is the main framework for IT governance (Sahibudin et al., 2008) and focusses on the whole company, not just ITSM (Simplilearn, 2022). ISO provides thousands of standards that covers many areas, and it specifies how something should operate or interact (Heires, 2008). For the purpose of this research, COBIT will be used as the governance framework because it widely used, and even considered by some as the best governance- and auditing framework. It also has the best integration with the body of knowledge and methodologies that will be discussed.It is also important to consider that the governance framework, body of knowledge and methodologies walks hand-in-hand and is not standalone terms. COBIT VersionThere are 2 main COBIT frameworks that can be used as the governance framework. Either COBIT 5 or COBIT 19 can be used. The main difference between the two is that COBIT 19 is a more simplified version of COBIT 5 and used the maturity rather than capability. COBIT 19 documentation is also provided, and therefore will used as the governance framework in this project. COBIT 19Note*The COBIT 19 Document will be references a lot in this section, seeing it is the main governance framework documentation that will be used to ensure validity and reliabilityStructureCOBIT 19 has 5 domains, 9 Critical success factors, and 40 processes. Each process has a set of activities and practices. Not all processes will be discussed, only these directly applicable to the research project. Critical Success FactorsThere are 7 critical success factors that needs to be satisfied, these factors are also known as the COBIT components of a governance system (ISACA, 2019). The factors are Processes, Organizational Structure, Principles, Policies, Procedures Information, Culture, Ethics, Behaviour, people, skills, competencies, services, infrastructure and lastly applications. A project manager needs to make sure these success factors are satisfied when working on n project, and make sure the methodology is able to satisfy these factors. Main DomainsStakeholders, portfolios, programs, and projects are all important factors that needs to be considered and discussed when doing project management and choosing a project management. Stakeholders, portfolios, programs, and projects are all part of the domains of COBIT 19.The four domains specified in the COBIT 19 framework are APO, BAI, DSS, MEA. These abbreviations are described in The following table maps the factors to the domains and specific processes.Table 2 - Factors and Domains Map TableStakeholdersStakeholders are a key to any project because they are the people who invest in the company and projects. There are two types of investors, namely internal and external. Internal stakeholders can be the board members to project managers, where external stakeholders are the clients or investors outside the organization (Dunham, 2016). Governance ensure stakeholder needs, and try to achieve the objectives that was defined with the stakeholders (ISACA, 2019).In APO11, it specifies that we need to define and communicate the requirements in the processes and procedures. This makes it possible to control, monitor, and use of practices and standards (ISACA, 2019) set in the governance framework, as well as the bodies of knowledge that will be explained in the next section. The Business Goals needs to be aligned with the IT Goals, and these goals needs to be met in order to keep the stakeholders happy. They provide the funds for the project that is to be managed. It can either be internal stakeholders or external stakeholders. There also needs to be determined what the scope it for the project, and what the project needs to address in the business. Propper planning needs to be done during this section.PortfoliosIn APO05 it specifies that the goal is to optimise the performance of the overall portfolio of programs. This is where you change the priories and demand (ISACA, 2019). Throughout this process, there will be determined where the funding will come from, and what it will be used for. Some programs may have higher priority, and may need more funding, and the manager or CEO’s can allocate the funds and initiate programs. This investment portfolio is very important, because this is where it is determined what the program and project budget will be. As stated in Chapter 1, for a project to be a success it needs to be on time, according to budget and in scope. Proper planning and management needs to be done, because the programs needs to be monitored and maintained.ProgramsThis is where the programs from the investment portfolio is managed, and where the programs is coordinated in alignment with the organisation’s goals (ISACA, 2019). This is based on the standard program management approach. A few management practices will be looked at, and it will be made clear that this is very important when it comes to any project and show how it aligns with stakeholders needs and the portfolio, specifically the investment portfolio. BAI01.01The manager should maintain a standard approach for program management. This enables governance, decision-making and delivery management activities. This ensures that there is focused on business- goals and values. BAI01.02This is where a program is initiated, and where the benefits are confirmed, and authorization is obtained. An activity that occurs during this practice is the appointment of a dedicated manager. The manager is responsible for choosing the correct project methodology that will be used throughout this program and the projects thereof. BAI01.03This is where the stakeholder engagement is managed. As stated in the Stakeholders section, stakeholders can either be internal or external, and there needs to be a plan how to communicate with them throughout the life cycle of the projects. The PMBOK can be used in accordance with this section.BAI01.04This is where the program plan is developed and maintained. The program plan contains the programs projects. The success factors needs to be in this program plan, to make sure these success factors are satisfied during the programs. ProjectsThis is where the projects are managed that was initiated. It is based on the standard project management approach. The project outcomes are defined delays, cost and value erosion are reduced, by improving the communication between the manager and business or end users. This can be internal or external clients (ISACA, 2019). The project management approach is the methodology that the manager chooses for the specific project. These methodologies should cover the three goals that is needed to call a project a success: Time, budget, and scope. Important practices under BAI11 are the following:BAI11.01This is where the manager should maintain a standard approach for project management. The manager should choose a project management methodology that will be used to achieve the three goals previously stated.  BAI11.02Ensure the stakeholders have a clear understanding of the scope  and the nature of the project. BAI11.03There should be made sure the communication to the stakeholders are accurate and, consistent and timely. BAI11.04A project plan should be developed and maintained that covers business and IT resources. This project plan can sometimes change during the project, depending on the methodology that is usedSolutionThis is where people, processes and technologies are used in order to deliver products and services. (ISACA, 2019). According to the COBIT 19 framework it should be establish timely and cost-effective solutions, which is in line with the goals of a successful project. SummaryMaking sure the project adhere to the processes and practices, will make it a lot easier to please stakeholders, and internal or external clients. Following these processes, will also help ensure the 3 goals of scope, time and budget will be achieved. Having a governance framework is very important when you want best practice in you company and make it easier to audit projects. Unfortunately, “best practice” is predictable, and innovation is not. You cannot have best practice and be innovative during the project. Bodies of KnowledgeIntroductionA body of knowledge can be defined as all the concepts, terminology, and actions that comprise a professional domain (Penzenstadler et al., 2013). It is important for a manager of projects to use a set of skills and knowledge to ensure that customers, stakeholders, and other participants in the project are satisfied (PMI, 2017).There are a lot of different bodies of knowledge, but the main one used for project management is Project management body of knowledge, more commonly known as PMBOK. This body of knowledge is generally recognized as good practice (PMI, 2017), and we can link the good practise of PMBOK with the best practice of the COBID 19 framework. Again, everything links together. It is important to remember that a project is considered a success when it is on time, in budget and according to scope. Below the structure of PMBOK will be discussed, and it will be made clear how this body of knowledge can be used with the COBIT framework.The PMBOK has 5 process groups, 10 knowledge areas and 49 processes (Roussel, 2022).Process GroupsThe process groups are there to ensure the project objectives are met. The following is the 5 process groups and their definitions.InitiatingDuring this process group, new projects and their scope are defined. A project manager will also be assigned to the project. Stakeholders are also identified. In the COBIT section of this research document, we Identified that it is important to satisfy the internal and external stakeholders. This allows for more opportunities and minimise the threads to the project. Keeping the stakeholders happy, also ensures that the funs available to the project may be increased if the project shows potential of being successful. Practice BAI01.03 of COBIT 19 refers to Manage Stakeholder engagement, that can be linked to this process group, more specifically Project Communications management in PMBOK. Practice BAI11.02 in COBIT 19, also states that there should be a common understanding of the scope among the stakeholders. PlanningDuring this process group, more in depth planning is done to establish the total scope. Objectives are also refined, and a plan is put in place to attain these objectives (PMI, 2017). An important COBIT 19 practise that can be linked to this process group is BAI11.04, where a project plan in developed, where the scope should be clearly defined. An activity under BAI11.04 also states that a project baseline should be established. This baseline includes the successful project goals: budget, time, and scope. During this process group, it is also important to decide on a project management methodology that will be used to ensure the goals are achieved. Project management methodologies will be later discussed, and a SWOT analysis will be done on these methodologies to decide whether those methodologies are applicable for the next three to five years.  ExecutingThis is a very important process group, because this is where the project plan, and the methodology chosen for the project is executed. According to PMBOK, this process group is very important everything needed to meet the project requirements and objectives is done according to the plan designed in the previous process group. Monitor and ControlThis process group handles the tracking, reviewing and regulating the processes and performance of projects, and identify any changes that should be made to the project plan (PMI, 2017). This can be linked to BAI11.04 of COBIT 19, where it was shown that the project plan should be maintained and can sometimes change during the project. ClosingThis is where a project is formally closed or completed. Hopefully when following the COBIT 19 framework, the PMBOK and a project methodology that fits the project and scope, the project would be a success. Knowledge AreasA knowledge area is a collection of processes that are associated with a certain topic in project management, and are used on almost all projects. (PMI, 2017). Below is a description of the 10 knowledge areas: To ensure reliability and validity, these knowledge areas are gathered from PMBOK.Project Integration managementIdentifies, defines, combines, unifies, and coordinates the many processes and project management activities inside the Project Management Process Groups (PMI, 2017). This enables the management of a project as a whole, and not bits and pieces (Roussel, 2022)Project Scope managementContains the processes necessary to guarantee that the project includes all of the work required to successfully complete the project (PMI, 2017). Project Schedule ManagementThis includes process that are required to understand the time commitment of the people working on the project. It also provides a timeframe of the project (Roussel, 2022). Project Cost Management.This is the processes that determines the budget of each task. It should also include the where the funding is coming from, like the internal of external stakeholders, and what is being done with that money. Project Quality ManagementIncorporates the procedures for implementing the organization's quality policy regarding the planning, management, control of project and product quality requirements in order to fulfil the expectations of stakeholders (PMI, 2017). This allows the result to be in line with the scope and expectations. Project Resource ManagementResources provided for the project must be managed correctly and efficiently to maximise the opportunities and complete the project successfully. Project Communications managementInvolves the processes that the manager must follow to keep the stakeholders up to date and informed with what is happening during the project. This processes also required to ensure timely and appropriate planning (PMI, 2017).Project Risk ManagementProcesses covered in this knowledge area enable the management to conduct a risk assessment, such as a SWOT analysis, in order to evaluate the potential risks associated with the project.Project Procurement ManagementThis is the processes that is needed to purchase the products, services or results needed. A wise man one said that a manager should be able to know when to buy, build, modify or disregard a project or solution (Kruger, 2022). Project Stakeholder ManagementThis is the processes needed to identify everyone that can be affected by the project or impact the project. Stakeholders expectations must be met, and their impact on the project is very important (PMI, 2017). Below is a mapping between the Process Groups, processes and the 10 knowledge areas. Figure 1 - Mapping of process groups and knowledge areas (PMI, 2017)SummaryHopefully the above explanation of PMBOK shines light on how important it is for a manager to follow the body of knowledge. This PMBOK is applicable to almost any project, using any project methodology that will be discussed in the next part of this research. Applying the processes in Figure 1 is very important for a manager to plan, cater and manage a project in order to maximise the opportunities, and minimise the threats.MethodologiesIntroductionDuring a project, any of several project management methodologies can be implemented. The majority of managers feel it boils down to individual preference. In accordance with the COBIT 19 framework and the Project management body of knowledge, the primary objective of this section is to identify the most effective project management approach for usage over the next three to five years.PRINCE2, AGILE, and WATERFALL are three methodologies that are frequently employed in practice. A SWOT analysis will be conducted on each of the approaches to assess if they will maximize opportunities and minimize threats over the next years.A SWOT analysis is a technique for identifying the internal and external strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats that affect a project. Strengths and Weaknesses are considered internal, while Opportunities and threats are considered external (Paquet, 2018).PRINCE2 MethodologyIntroductionPRINCE2 is a methodology that stand for “Projects IN Controlled Environments” (Wideman, 2002), and is a framework that divides projects into smaller, more manageable pieces. The project life cycle is managed by the seven processes of PRINCE2 (Malsam, 2021).  PRINCE2 has been around for about 30 years (ILXGroup, 2022).StructureIt is important to know the structure and a basic working of this Methodology, to better understand the SWOT analysis done afterwards. PRINCE2 has seven principles, seven themes and seven processesSeven principles (AXELOS, 2017):Continued Business JustificationThere must be a justifiable reason to start a project. An important document is the Business case. This document is used through the life cycle of the project. Learn from ExperienceIt is important to learn from al the projects worked on. Learning past mistakes is very important to avoid making the same mistakes in future projects. Roles and Responsibilities Are definedDuring a project, members can take on more than one role, and even share rolls. Manage by StagesUsing the PRINCE2 methodology, the project is divided into smaller parts call stages. After each stage is finished in the life cycle, the project plan is updated. Manage by ExceptionPutting it plainly, this is how much authority each project member has in their area. These ‘authority’ is called tolerance and can be adjusted if exceeded. Focus on ProductsThe quality of the deliverables must be good. Tailor to Suit Project EnvironmentThe PRINCE2 methodology must be tailored to fit the specific project.Seven Themes (AXELOS, 2017):Table 3 - PRINCE2 ThemesSeven Processes (AXELOS, 2017):The processes of the PRINCE2 methodology is similar to the process groups in PMBOK. The following are the seven processes:Starting a projectA purpose for the project needs to be clear, and this contributes to the scope of the project. Initiating a projectAt this stage, the project manager how the performance targets will be managed. Directing a projectThis is the whole process from the beginning to the end of a projectControlling a stageThe responsibility of the project manager to divide the project into smaller, more manageable stages.Managing Product deliveryThis is more about the communication between the managers and delivering deliverables.Managing stage boundaries The project manager and the stakeholders reviews every stage.Closing a projectDecommission the projectStrengths (KnowledgeHut, 2022)Easy to stay on trackOne of the goals of a successful project is to deliver the project on time. Using PRINCE2, project is divided into smaller and more manageable stages, that makes it easier to accomplish in time.  Good Quality and Best PracticeAfter each stage, the manager and stakeholders decide whether or not the outcomes are fulfilled. Using PRINCE2 along with a governance framework such as COBIT19 or ITIL, ensures best practice. ReliableThis is a very important advantage, because it plays a huge part in the project question of is there a methodology that is applicable for the next three to five years. PRINCE2 has been around for around 30 years, and according to PRINCE2.com, 88% of professionals said that this methodology helped them in their managing career (ILXGroup, 2022). WeaknessesDocumentationAlthough PRINCE2 allows for good quality projects, this methodology has a lot of documentation along with the project life cycle (KissFlow, 2021). Difficult without training and guidanceIn order to apply PRINCE2 in a project, proper training and certification needs to be done, this can be expensive and time consuming (ILXGroup, 2022).ThreatsThere are a lot of threats and risks that can be encountered during a project, but PRINCE2 has certain responses, to avoid and reduce these risks. Therefor the risks of this methodology is not as much as other methodologies. Common risks are bad defined scope, lack of communication and obsolete business case. Fortunately, PRINCE2 addresses this risks with its themes and processes. Although most common risks and threats are accounted for, there are still some possible threats are:PerformanceA possible risk of this methodology is that the abundance of documentation, that can consume a lot of time, and affect the overall performance of the project. StakeholdersStakeholders plays a big part in project management, and stakeholders should be kept up to date with everything. Stakeholders may be difficult to and keep changing the scope of the project. OpportunitiesFreedomThere is more freedom for the management and developers to use the resources available, to finish the project. SummaryUsing this methodology would allow the project to deliver according to budget but the possible risk of performance, the project might not be delivered on time. PRINCE2 is a methodology that works closely with governance frameworks, as well as a body of knowledge. Allowing managers to plan, cater and manage threats and weaknesses more closely. A big advantage though is that this project has been around for a very long time and is most likely to stay relevant and applicable for the following three to five years.Agile MethodologyIntroductionDuring the agile methodology, the project is divided into stages or sprints, much like PRINCE2. This allows a project to be managed in smaller, more manageable sections. Agile methodology  allows products to be build incrementally and iteratively. This allows the product to change with the help of customer feedback. Customer involvement is very important. The agile manifesto was officially defined in 2001 and is still being used today (AgileManifesto, 2001). StructureThe agile methodology has 4 values and 12 principles. Values (Schwalbe, 2019):Individuals and interactions over processes and toolsWorking software over comprehensive documentationCustomer collaboration over contract negotiationResponding to change over following a planPrinciples (Alliance, 2021):Satisfy the customerChanging requirements are welcomeFrequently deliver working softwareCustomers and developers must communicate and collaborate to create successful projects.Build projects around motivated individualsFace-to-face communicationFunctional software is the primary indicator of  progressPromote sustainable developmentChecking technical excellence and good design continuously enhances agilitySimplicitySelf-organizing teamsRegular reflections on how to improve performance. StrengthsMost, if not all the following strengths are the same as the principles of the agile methodology. But for the purpose of this study, only a few strengths will be named (Shahir et al., 2008): Changes are welcomeIn the Agile methodology, changes is welcome, because the project and product change depending on the users feedback. Meeting stakeholders and client needsSeeing that after every print, the stakeholders and customer gives feedback, allows the stakeholders to be happy and participate in the project life cycle. This helps the goal of delivering the project in scope. Iterative and Incremental developmentHelp to frequently deliver working increments of the project. This helps with quality insurance.Rapid DevelopmentAnother strength is that using the agile methodology, projects are usually done faster. Helping the goal of delivering a project in time. WeaknessesWeaknesses in the agile methodology are not uncommon, these following are possible weaknesses when using the agile methodology (Shahir et al., 2008):CommunicationsOne of the principle states that one of the main communication methods is face-to-face. This can be very difficult in some projects. Especially with COVID making more and more projects online. Customer ParticipationEven though customer and stakeholder participation can be considered as a strength, it can also be a weakness if the customer or stakeholders don’t want to be present all of the time. DocumentationAlthough a lot of documentation can be considered as a weakness, like in PRINCE2, a lack of documentation such as with Agile can be very bad, making it a lot harder for new developers joining the project later onThreatsCertain limitations and threats associated with the Agile Methodology is as follows: Lack of InterestIn more traditional companies, managers does not want to use the Agile methodology, because it difficult for new developers to join ongoing projects (Shahir et al., 2008).Governance frameworks incorporationIt is more difficult to incorporate the Agile methodology with the COBIT 19, than it is for example with PRINCE2. OpportunitiesThere are a lot of opportunities during the project to change the scope and adapt to the new feedback received from stakeholders.Team Empowerment (Sidra, 2017)Allowing the manager and developers to have the environment and support they need to accomplish the goals of the project SummaryAgile methodology is not a methodology typically used in traditional organisations. Agile methodology allows the project to be according to the scope, although it can change throughout the project, and keep the stakeholders involved and happy. It is more difficult for managers to plan, cater and manage the threats and opportunities, but not impossible.Waterfall MethodologyIntroductionUnlike the Agile methodology, the waterfall methodology is a sequential or linear approach to project management. The project is divided into phases, and these phases are complete after one another, usually with the sign-off by stakeholders (Sherman, 2015). The waterfall methodology was established in 1970 and is still being used in practice today (Leeron Hooray, 2022). StructureThe structure of a Waterfall methodology is typically that of a project life cycle. The waterfall methodology has 6 phases. Figure 2 - Waterfall Methodology PhasesStrengths (Sharma, 2021)DeadlinesSeeing that the project are divided in specific phases, each phase has specific deadlines, making sure the project will be delivered in time. Ease of UseThe normal project life cycle and its phases is easy to understand. New developers can join during the development and be brought up to date quickly. Easy to manageAs a manager, it is easy to manage such project, because there are specific goals and deliverables, that won’t change after Phase 1. WeaknessesChangesAfter Phase 1, where a scope is defined, and moves to Phase 2, the scope cannot be revisited and changed. Little stakeholder and client interactionThe only phase where stakeholders are involved is stage 1. There are a bigger chance that the stakeholders will be unhappy with the end product. ThreatsToo rigid (ITPROJECTMETHODS, 2017)Traditional software companies may like this methodology, but other industries such as entertainment industries and start-up organizations prefer Agile, because it allows them to revise the scope and make changes where necessaryOpportunitiesImprove future projects (Sidra, 2017)Due to adequate documentation in waterfall methodology, it may help to design comparable or even more improved projects in the futureDiscipline (ITPROJECTMETHODS, 2017)Because the developers and manager doesn’t have the same freedom as Agile methodology, rules are followed. SummaryThe waterfall methodology is the preferred methodology for traditional organisations. Although this methodology allows the project to finish on time, it won’t necessarily be according to scope, seeing that the scope can only be defined in the first Phase of the life cycle, and cannot be revised. As a manager standpoint, it is much easier to manage waterfall projects than it is for agile projects. Chapter 3  - Summary Looking at the governance frameworks, bodies of knowledge and the methodologies sections of this research project, the following were made clear:Factors when implementing a methodology:1. Organization / StakeholdersWaterfallIn the waterfall methodology, the scope in only defined in Phase 1. This makes it stakeholder engagement very little, and there is a bigger chance the stakeholders will be unhappy.AgileOne of the principles of the Agile methodology is to satisfy the customer and stakeholders. After every print, feedback is given from the stakeholders and changes can be made accordingly.PRINCE2Much like the Agile methodology, a project are divided into more manageable parts called stages. After the stages, managers and stakeholders will review the results and make changes accordingly. 2. PortfolioWaterfallThe budget is defined in the first Phase of the life cycle and cannot be changed throughout the project, making it much more likely to no complete the project on budgetAgile and PRINCE2Although the budget is also defined in the beginning, with these two methodologies, the budget can be adjusted throughout the project, making it more likely to finish in budget.3. ProgramWaterfallA program is much easier managed during this methodology, because a standard approach is followed. Agile and PRINCE2It is more difficult to manage these programs but not impossible. 4. ProjectWaterfallThis is quite the same as above with programs. Waterfall methodologies are easier managed. Waterfall methodologies are more used with smaller projects and more traditional organisations.Agile and PRINCE2More difficult to manage these projects but can be done. These methodologies are used in organisations that want to be more innovative and focus on the stakeholder needs rather than just finishing a project. Goals of a successful projectThe table below indicates what methodologies are more likely to achieve the goals of finishing in time, on budget and according to scope. This is done via using the information in the SWOT analysis:Table 4 - Goal AchievementsNOTE*It is important to note that the table above are the researchers own opinion after looking at the SWOT analysis done on the methodologies. It is not set in stone.Chapter 4  - ConclusionConsidering the above factors and goals results got from the SWOT analysis, all these projects are able to complete projects on time, in budget and according to scope. The only real difference between these methodologies is that it is used in different environments. Waterfall is used in more traditional organizations, where PRINCE2 and Agile is used in more innovative, and entertainment organizations. Internal and external stakeholders, portfolios, programs, and projects were discussed and shown how managers should look at the project methodologies to maximise the opportunities and minimise the threats. Lastly, in every methodology, its age was states. All of these methodologies are older than 20 years, and they are all still in use. This answers the question of whether there is a methodology that will still be applicable over the next three to five years. The answer is yes. I believe most project management methodologies that can accomplish the 3 goals of a successful project will still be applicably within the next three to five years. It depends on management preference and the type of organisation that uses the methodology.BibliographyAGILEMANIFESTO. 2001. History: The Agile Manifesto [Online]. AgileManifesto.  [Accessed].ALAMI, A. 2016. Why do information technology projects fail? Procedia Computer Science, 100, 62-71.ALLIANCE, S. 2021. The Key Values and Principles of the Agile Manifesto [Online]. ScrumAlliance.  [Accessed].AXELOS 2017. Managing Succesful Projects with PRINCE2, The Stationery Office.DABADE, T. D. Information technology infrastructure library (ITIL).  Proceedings of the 4th National Conference, 2012. 25-26.DUNHAM, R. 2016. What Is COBIT [Online]. United States: Linford & Co.  [Accessed].HEIRES, M. 2008. The international organization for standardization (ISO). New Political Economy, 13, 357-367.ILXGROUP. 2022. What is PRINCE2 [Online]. United Kingdom: PRINCE2. Available:  [Accessed].ISACA 2019. COBIT® 2019 FRAMEWORK: GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES. United States.ITPROJECTMETHODS. 2017. Agile and Waterfall – a SWOT analysis [Online]. ITPROJECTMETHODS.  [Accessed].KISSFLOW. 2021. PRINCE2 Methodology in Project Management – A Complete Overview [Online]. KissFlow.  [Accessed].KNOWLEDGEHUT. 2022. Prince2 Certification: Advantages and Disadvantages. Available from: .KRUGER, N. 2022. IRTI 614. In: STRYDOM, H. (ed.). NWU: Neel Kruger.KWAK, Y. H. 2005. A brief history of project management. The story of managing projects: An interdisciplinary approach, 1-9.LEERON HOORAY, C. B. 2022. What Is Waterfall Methodology? Here’s How It Can Help Your Project Management Strategy [Online]. USA: Forbes Advisor.  [Accessed].MALSAM, W. 2021. What Is PRINCE2? Principles, Aspects, Roles & Processes [Online]. ProjectManager. Available:  [Accessed].OXFORDLANGUAGES 2022. Dictionary. Oxford Languages. United Kingdom: Oxford University Press.PAQUET, J. 2018. Agile SWOT [Online]. United States: MyAgilePartnet.  [Accessed].PENZENSTADLER, B., FERNÁNDEZ, D. M., RICHARDSON, D., CALLELE, D. & WNUK, K. The requirements engineering body of knowledge (rebok).  2013 21st IEEE International Requirements Engineering Conference (RE), 2013. IEEE, 377-379.PMI 2017. A guide to the project management body of knowledge (PMBOK guide) / Project Management Institute, United States, Project Management Institute.ROUSSEL, J. 2022. PMBOK: Project Management Body of Knowledge. KaiNexis Blog [Online].SAHIBUDIN, S., SHARIFI, M. & AYAT, M. Combining ITIL, COBIT and ISO/IEC 27002 in order to design a comprehensive IT framework in organizations.  2008 Second Asia International Conference on Modelling & Simulation (AMS), 2008. IEEE, 749-753.SCHWALBE, K. 2019. Information Technology Project Management, United States, Cengage.SHAHIR, H. Y., DANESHPAJOUH, S. & RAMSIN, R. Improvement strategies for agile processes: a SWOT analysis approach.  2008 Sixth International Conference on Software Engineering Research, Management and Applications, 2008. IEEE, 221-228.SHARMA, L. 2021. WaterFall Model [Online]. Tools QA.  [Accessed].SHERMAN, R. 2015. Project Management [Online]. ScienceDirect.  [Accessed].SIDRA. 2017. Waterfall vs Agile models: SWOT analysis.SIMPLILEARN. 2022. COBIT vs. ITIL®: The Ultimate IT Governance Framework Comparison [Online]. United States: Simplilearn. Available:  [Accessed].SOMERS, T. M. & NELSON, K. The impact of critical success factors across the stages of enterprise resource planning implementations.  Proceedings of the 34th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, 2001. IEEE, 10 pp.WIDEMAN, R. M. 2002. Comparing PRINCE2® with PMBoK®. AEW Services, Vancouver, BC, Canada, 13-16.
Project Management and Software Development Methodologies in South AfricaH.L Strydom orcid.org/0000-0002-2362-6327Supervisor:	Prof. Neels KrugerCo-supervisor:	Mr. Ricus WarmenhovenExamination: 17 October 2022Student number: 31597793Table of contentsList of Tables List of FiguresList of abbreviationsIntroductionIntroductionThis research project seeks to highlight the most used Project Management and Software Development Methodologies in the South African IT job market. To prove this a questionnaire will be sent out and case studies will be reviewed to get a better insight into what real businesses are using. There will also be determined what changes COVID-19 has imposed on these businesses. Problem StatementOne of the primary objectives of every organization is to generate revenue, and in order to generate revenue, they must achieve a competitive edge over other businesses. Unfortunately, external changes will make it challenging for any business to meet its needs. Changes in the external environment, such as COVID-19, are driving technical innovation and compelling enterprises to innovate, adapt, and overcome these obstacles.COVID-19 is an infectious disease caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus, and it is transmitted by small liquid particles distributed by coughing, sneezing, or even breathing (WHO, 2020). Lockdowns were enacted worldwide, and businesses were closed for an extended period of time. These businesses and organizations had to find a method to continue their operations in an online environment. It is challenging enough for CEOs, CIOs, and GITOs to effectively manage Information and Communications Technologies and develop a sustainable ICT environment that is conducive to human and social needs.Because COVID-19 altered how businesses operate and how managers oversee development teams, this study will highlight the most prevalent Project Management and Software Development Methodologies in the South African IT employment market as compared to the international market.In order to find more information on these management and development methodologies, a minimum of five companies will fill out a questionnaire, giving more insight into the matter. Questionnaire Link: Aims and ObjectivesThe aim is to highlight the following company differences: Size of the companyType of software projects they completeProject Management and Software Development MethodologiesSuccess and FailuresThe goal of this research project is to make conclusions about the most prevalent project management and software methodologies in the IT job market, why they work or do not work, and future suggestions, considering the influence of COVID-19.Provisional Chapter DivisionThe following Table 1, depicts the provisional chapter division on the subjects that will be discussed:Table 1 - Provisional Chapter DivisionLiterature Review of methodologiesIntroductionThere are a variety of available Project management and software development methodologies. Before discussing the approaches, a clear definition of Project Management Methodologies and Software Development Methodologies is required:Project Management Methodology:Project management methodologies, also known as PMM can be seen as a set of approaches, guidelines, tools, templates, and techniques that may be utilized to manage any team (Pace, 2019).Software Development Methodology: Software development methodologies are a collection of rules and guidelines that are adhered to throughout the software development process (Machiridza, 2016). It can also be seen as a set of processes that are iteratively followed to successfully complete the project (ur Rehman, 2017).  Examining both Project management and software development approaches reveals a significant distinction between the two. Software development methodologies are used to successfully complete a development project, whereas project management methodologies are used to effectively manage a team. In section 2.2, project management and software development methodologies will be discussed. Project Management and Software Development MethodologiesIn the following sections, different project management and software development methodologies will be discussed. It is important to note that some methodologies can be used explicitly for project management and other explicitly for software development, but some methodologies can be used for both. The methodologies that will be discussed have been selected because they are the same methodologies that are being used by the companies that are the focus of the case studies.Project Management MethodologiesProject management methodologies are used by project managers to manage a team of developers and other team members, to ensure the successful completion of projects.PRINCE2 MethodologyPRINCE2 is a methodology that stands for “Projects IN Controlled Environments” (Wideman, 2002), and is a framework that divides projects into smaller, more manageable pieces called “Stages”. PRINCE2 has been around for about 30 years (ILXGroup, 2022).  The project life cycle is managed by the seven processes of PRINCE2 (Malsam, 2021). PRINCE 2 is very flexible and scalable according to AXELOS (2020) and provides a step-by-step guide to managing a project. It is essential to know the structure and basic workings of this methodology to successfully use it in project management. This methodology has seven Principles, seven Themes, and Seven Processes provided by AXELOS (2020) in the PRINCE22 guide.  PRINCE2 PrinciplesThese principles provide a framework of best practices for all participants in a project: Table 2 - PRINCE2 PrinciplesPRINCE2 ThemesSeveral questions need to be answered throughout the project management process to successfully manage a project. The following themes will aid in answering the questions of why, who, what, how, what if, impact, and where are we now. Table 3 - PRINCE2 ThemesPRINCE2 ProcessesPRINCE2 is a process-based project management methodology. A process is a systematic series of activities meant to achieve a certain goal. The following processes provide a set of activities that are required to deliver a successful project.Table 4 - PRINCE2 ProcessesStrengths (KnowledgeHut, 2022)Easy to stay on trackOne of the goals of a successful project is to deliver the project on time. Using PRINCE2, project is divided into smaller and more manageable stages, that makes it easier to accomplish in time.  Good Quality and Best PracticeAfter each stage, the manager and stakeholders decide whether or not the outcomes are fulfilled. Using PRINCE2 along with a governance framework such as COBIT19 or ITIL, ensures best practice. ReliableThis is a very important advantage, because it plays a huge part in the project question of is there a methodology that is applicable for the next three to five years. PRINCE2 has been around for around 30 years, and according to PRINCE2.com, 88% of professionals said that this methodology helped them in their managing career (ILXGroup, 2022). WeaknessesDocumentationAlthough PRINCE2 allows for good quality projects, this methodology has much documentation along with the project life cycle (KissFlow, 2021). Difficult without training and guidanceIn order to apply PRINCE2 in a project, proper training and certification need to be done; this can be expensive and time-consuming (ILXGroup, 2022).Software Development MethodologiesSoftware development methodologies are used when working on artefacts or projects. Software development methodologies are followed to ensure the development of the artefact is a success, and satisfies the clients needs. DevOpsDevOps, also known as ‘Development-to-Operations”, is a practice that combines processes of Development and Operations (Ebert et al., 2016), meaning DevOps consists of a single team that is in charge of development, testing and all operation processes (Gokarna & Singh, 2021). This helps teams to continuously deliver quality software, while reducing miscommunications between two teams (Ebert et al., 2016). DevOps can be broken down into four phases that needs to be followed in order to be successful: Plan, Develop / Test, Deploy, and Operate. These four phases fit into a larger DevOps architecture as depicted by Sharma and Coyne (2015) in Figure 1. Figure 1 - DevOps ArchitectureStrengths Fast development and deployment of programsImproves customer experience and satisfactionSimplifies collaborationBetter productivity and team engagement due to collective responsibilityWeaknessesNot many DevOps professionalsTechnological infrastructure cost is highBoth Project Management and Software Development MethodologiesAGILE Methodology Much like PRINCE2, projects are divided into smaller, more manageable pieces, called prints. The Agile methodology is a method of managing projects by dividing them into smaller, more manageable pieces called prints. Constant communication with stakeholders and continual improvement at each level are required.  There are different types of Agile methods and frameworks such as SCRUM, extreme project management, adaptive project management and dynamic project management (Cervone, 2011). Figure 2 - SCRUM MethodologyA SCRUM master is responsible for upholding the values and principles and hence assuring the success of the project.There are six SCRUM principles serve as guidelines to follow the SCRUM methodology. The following are the six SCRUM principles as described by Wrike (2020). Empirical Process ControlSCRUM processes are ruled by transparency, inspection and adaption. Self-OrganisationSCRUM teams should manage their own tasks and solve problems independentlyTime-BoxingA certain amount of time is set out for each objectiveValue Based Prioritisation Product backlog items are continuously updated based on value and importanceIterative DevelopmentObjectives are consistently reviews and revisedCollaborationMost SCRUM teams frequently work together, and daily meetings are held to ensure everything is going according to plan, and to resolve any problems. Agile is a very useful methodology for when the requirements can change through the development process, and follows four values:Individuals and interactions over processes and toolsWorking software over comprehensive documentationCustomer collaboration over contract negotiationResponding to change over following a planThese 4 values are met by following the SCRUM life cycle as depicted in the figure belowe:Figure 3 - SCRUM Life CycleThe agile software development methodology is different from more traditional methodologies, because the requirements can change throughout the life cycle, and developers can go to previous phases of the life cycle without starting over (Al-Saqqa et al., 2020). StrengthsMost, if not all the following strengths are the same as the principles of the agile methodology. However, for this study, only a few strengths will be named (Shahir et al., 2008): Changes are welcomeIn the Agile Methodology, changes are welcome because the project and product change depending on the user's feedback. Meeting stakeholders and client needsAfter every print, the stakeholders and customer give feedback allows the stakeholders to be happy and participate in the project life cycle. This helps the goal of delivering the project in scope. Iterative and Incremental developmentHelp to deliver working increments of the project frequently. This helps with quality insurance.Rapid DevelopmentAnother strength is that projects are usually done faster by using the agile methodology. They are helping the goal of delivering a project in time. WeaknessesWeaknesses in the agile methodology are not uncommon; these following are possible weaknesses when using the agile Methodology (Shahir et al., 2008):CommunicationsOne of the principles states that one of the main communication methods is face-to-face. This can be difficult in some projects, especially with COVID making more and more projects online. Customer ParticipationEven though customer and stakeholder participation can be considered as a strength, it can also be a weakness if the customer or stakeholders do not want to be present all of the time. DocumentationAlthough much documentation can be considered a weakness, like in PRINCE2, a lack of documentation, such as with Agile, can be appalling, making it a lot harder for new developers joining the project later onWATERFALL MethodologyUnlike the Agile Methodology, the waterfall methodology is a sequential or linear approach to project management. The project is divided into phases, and these phases are complete after one another, usually with the sign-off by stakeholders (Sherman, 2015). The waterfall methodology was established in 1970 and is still being used in practice today (Leeron Hooray, 2022). It is predominantly employed when a project's requirements are well-defined and the likelihood of significant changes are minimal (Dursun & Goker, 2022). There are six phases in this methodology, namely Requirements, Design, Implementation, Testing, Deployment and Maintenance (Laoyan, 2021). Each phase needs to be completed before going on to the next phase, and the only way to revise a previous phase is to restart the flow. Figure 4 - Waterfall Methodology PhasesFigure 5 - Waterfall Phases ExplainedStrengths (Sharma, 2021)DeadlinesSeeing that the project is divided in specific phases, each phase has specific deadlines, making sure the project will be delivered in time. Ease of UseThe normal project life cycle and its phases is easy to understand. New developers can join during the development and be brought up to date quickly. Easy to manageAs a manager, it is easy to manage such project, because there are specific goals and deliverables, that won’t change after Phase 1. WeaknessesChangesAfter Phase 1, where a scope is defined, and moves to Phase 2, the scope cannot be revisited and changed. Little stakeholder and client interactionThe only phase where stakeholders are involved is stage 1. There is a bigger chance that the stakeholders will be unhappy with the end product. SummaryChoosing a methodology for either Project Management or Software Development all depends on the requirements of the clients or the type of business. Some methodologies are specifically for project management such as PRINCE2, and some methodologies are specifically for software development such as DevOps.For project management, PRINCE2 is a good project management methodology when the manager wants a strong management structure and wants a clear methodology for risk assessment. For software development, DevOps is a good methodology, when you want to speed up the development process and decrease the risk of miscommunications. Although there is a difference between project management and software development, there is an overlapping methodology. Both project management and software development can use the same methodologies such as the Waterfall methodology and Agile Methodology. When the requirements are set in stone, and not subject to change, a Waterfall methodology would work well, but when the business is continuously working with the clients and shareholders, the Agile methodology may be more applicable. This may sound good on paper, but is it true in practise? Did COVID-19 have an effect on the Project management and Software development methodologies companies follow? The following Chapter, different case studies will be reviewed to get a better understanding of the methodologies used in business, and what effect COVID-19 possibly had. Case StudiesIntroductionThe interviewees were from different types of businesses, and each employee had a unique function inside their own organization. The companies vary in terms of both their size and the kind of projects that they work on a daily basis. The companies that will be reviewed is Retro Rabbit, Entelect, SAPCONET, ANDILE Solutions, Signify Software and IsoMetrix Software.During this Chapter pseudonyms will be used to ensure employee privacy. A short overview of the company will be given where the following will be addressed:Methodologies usedWhether there is a difference between PMM and SDMWhere they worked before, during and after COVIDThe impact of COVIDSuccess and Failures in regard to productivity, collaboration, communication, work balance and security. Retro Rabbit – Company ARetro Rabbit is a medium-sized company with 100 to 500 employees. They are located in Pretoria, South Africa, in Wapadrand. The firm was established in 2004 with a focus on software development and the creation of software solutions for clients. It is a lively company and doesn’t resemble typical traditional companies. The employee that was interviewed and asked to fill out the questionnaire is Employee A, a junior developer at Retro Rabbit. Company A use the Agile methodology as both Project Management and Software development, more specifically the SCRUM method. This supports the answer of Employee A that they do not think there is a different function between Project management and Software Development Methodologies. Before COVID-19, Company A mostly worked on premise. During and after COVID-19 most of the work was done off premise. Employee A was of the opinion that COVID-19 has major impact on Project Management and Software Development. It had a positive effect on Software Development, but not Project Management. The employee also admitted that personal productivity did decrease. The employee strongly agreed that COVID-19 has a significant impact on the technologies, governance and strategies the company used. Some challenges the employee faced was communication and collaboration. It was very difficult for employees to build relationships and effectively communicate in an online environment. Work life balance was difficult to handle for the junior developer, but managing distractions was not so difficult. Although COVID-19 has some drawbacks on the company, the company found some success in their security. Company A were well equipped to handle any security threats while working from home, and the employees were skilled enough to handle any threats, even though they were working from their personal devices. Employee A made it clear that the role of a team leader can be very impactful on how the teams operate. Entelect – Company BEntelect is a large enterprise, employing more than 1000 employees. The headquarters are located in Melrose Arch in Gauteng, South Africa. They also have branches in Amsterdam and London. The company was founded in 2001 and specialise in software engineering to deliver world-word class solutions to a diverse range of industries. It is a more conventual company, that takes a more structured approach to project management. The employee that was interviewed and asked to fill out the questionnaire is Employee B, an intermediate developer at Entelect. Although company B believe there is a difference between Project Management and Software Development methodologies, they use the Agile methodology for both Project management and Software development, more specifically the SCRUM method. Company B worked on premise before COVID-19, off premise during COVID-19 and mostly off premise after post COVID-19. COVID-19 had a positive effect on project management and software development, as well as the manner in which they were conducted. Employee B strongly believed that COVID-19 had an impact on governance and the strategies within the company, and that COVID did not have a positive impact on the culture, maturity and operations. The employee also believes there was no impact on the technological infrastructure and architecture within the organisation. Some drawbacks the company experienced during COVID was that employees could not effectively build relationships with other members, and distractions were difficult to handle while working on an online environment. Even though it was difficult to build relationships, the team members were still able to effectively communicate, collaborate with other teams, and had a positive impact on productivity. The security sector of this company was not severely impacted COVID, because the company was well suited to deal with the security threads, and therefor the security protocols dit not change substantially. This could also be largely due to the fact that the employees did not use their own personal devices, and the company devices has anti-spyware installed.SAPCONET – Company CAlthough SAPCONET is a relatively small company with less than 100 employees, they form part of a larger company, groupelephant, that employs more than 1000 employees. SAPCONETs headquarters are located in Woodmead in Gauteng, South Africa. The company was founded in 2006, and they specialise in IT Consultation. The employee that was interviewed and asked to fill out the questionnaire is Employee C, a Project Manager at SAPCONET. This company generally do not follow any Software Development Methodologies, but when they do, they use the Waterfall methodology for both Project Management and Software Development. The company worked on premise before COVID, and mostly off premise during and after COVID. The employee strongly believed that COVID had an impact on the organisation, and the way they conducted Project Management and Software Development. Both Project Management and Software development had a positive impact. The technologies used, governance and strategies were impacted by COVID. Some were positively impacted such as Technology architecture and infrastructure, where other such as culture and maturity were negatively impacted. Teams could effectively communicate and collaborate with other teams, and it was easy to handle work-life balance, although it was difficult to manage all the distractions while working in an online environment. Security was also not a big problem for Company C, seeing they were well prepared to deal with threats that could arise while working from home. Employees were not trained to prevent any security risks, but the project manager believed they were skilled enough to deal with any threats. The employees used the companies devices equipped with anti-spyware software, and security audits was done once a quarter. The project manager made a statement that they are still currently working from home, and that requires them to have stricter project management than before. ANDILE Solutions – Company DANDILE Solutions is another small company with less than 100 employees. Their headquarters is located in Rosebank in Gauteng, South Africa. They also have other branches in Mauritius, Netherland and the United Kingdom.  The company was founded in 2008 and they specialise in IT consulting and IT services relating to financial services and central banks. The employee that was interviewed and asked to fill out the questionnaire is Employee D, a Lead Developer at ANDILE Solutions. This company believe there is a separation of function and duty between Project Management and Software Development methodology. The company uses AGILE SCUM and DevOps as their preferred Software Development methodologies and the Agile methodology for Project Management. COVID 19 did not have an impact on the way they conducted project management and it could be because of the reason that they were mostly working off premise before, during and after COVID, meaning they were used to an online working environment. Company D believed that that there was an impact on the technological infrastructure, but technologies were not the most significantly impacted due to COVID. It was determined that there was no impact on the governance and strategies of the organisation, and that culture, operations and services all had a positive impact due to COVID. The employee admitted that personal productivity was negatively impacted, and that it was not easy to handle work-life balance, partly due to the possible distractions while working from home. Working in an online environment has been a positive experience though, and teams could effectively communicate and collaborate with each other, making it possible to easily build relationships, albeit it be online. Another success the company had was that there was no major impact on the security of the company, because the company was well suited to deal with any security threats while working from home. The employees are skilled enough and had additional training to prevent any cyber-attacks. The employees used company issued devices, with cybers security tools and anti-spyware installed.   Signify Software – Company ESignify Software is a small company with less than 100 employees. Their headquarters is located in Centurion in Gauteng, South Africa. The company was founded in 1999, making it a more traditional business. They specialise in human resource management software and e-learning development. The employee that was interviewed and asked to fill out the questionnaire is Employee E, a junior developer at Signify Software. According to employee E, the company does not believe there is a separation in function and duty between Project Management and Software Development Methodologies. Company E uses different Software Development Methodologies for different types of projects they are working on. The three main methodologies used for SDM is Waterfall, Agile (Scrum) and DevOps. For Project Management they use Agile, seeing as DevOps is used only for Software Development as mentioned in Section 2.2.2. COVID 19 did have an impact on the company and the way they conducted Project Management. The employee believes that COVID 19 had a positive impact on the way they conducted Software Development. The company worked on premise before COVID, off premise during COVID, and then went back to the premise after COVID. COVID 19 did not have an impact on company E’s technological architecture, nor on the technological infrastructure. COVID had a significant impact on the processes they follow within their teams. According to employee E, the company’s governance and strategies stayed the same, and were not impacted at all. COVID 19, had a negative impact on their culture, operations and services within the company. The employee struggled with distractions when working in an online environment, but still managed to have a work-life balance. The company could still collaborate and communicate effectively with different teams, but it was difficult to build relationships in an online environment. The company was well suited to deal with security threats that presented themselves due to working in an online environment. This was a relief for this employee seeing the company experienced an increase in cyber attacks during COVID 19. Although the employees used their own devices while working from home, they had training making them skilled enough to deal with the cyber threats. Their personal computers also had cyber security tools and anti-spyware software to prevent any cyber threats that may arise. The employee also added that they used multi-factor authentication for an additional security measure. IsoMetrix Software – Company FIsoMetrix Software is a medium sized company that employs between 100 and 500 employees. They are situated in Johannesburg, South Africa. They also have other branches in the United States, Canada, Australia, and the United Kingdom. The company was founded in 2002, and specialise in risk management software development, and providing state of the art solutions for ESG, EHS and GRC management. The employee that was interviewed and asked to fill out the questionnaire is Employee F, a Senior Manager at Isometrix. Company F used Agile (Scrum) for their Software Management and the Waterfall or Agile methodology for Project Management. This Senior Manager believes there is a difference between Project Management and Software Development Methodologies. COVID 19 had an effect on both Project Management and Software Development, but it was mostly a positive impact, allowing them to be more productive individually and as a team.Technological architecture and infrastructure were severely impacted by COVID 19, and the employee believed that COVID has the most significant impact on both the technology that was used within projects, and the people working on these projects. The culture, maturity, operations and services were positively impacted due to COVID. There are a few factors that were not positively impacted, such as the work-life balance, and this could be due to the distractions the employees had whilst working in an online environment. Despite these distractions, the teams could still collaborate and communicate effectively with different teams and build strong relationships while working in an online environment.  The company was equipped well enough to deal with any cyber threats that was increasing during COVID 19. The employees used their own devices that had cyber security tools and anti-spyware installed. The employees were also trained, allowing them to be skilled enough to deal with any security threats.Case Study ComparisonIntroductionThe following sections are the analysis and results obtained from the questionnaires, interviews and case studies. The companies will be referenced as Company A to Company E. This data will be used to make conclusions and inferences in the following Chapter. Company Specialisation Table 5 - Company SpecialisationCompany Employee that completed questionnaire  Table 6 - Employee RolePredominant Software Development MethodologyTable 7 - SDM Questionnaire resultsPredominantly Project Management MethodologyTable 8 - PMM Questionnaire resultsDifference between SDM and PMMTable 9 - SDM and PMM DifferenceCOVID-19 ImpactTable 10 - COVID Site ImpactTable 11 - COVID General ImpactSuccess and FailuresTable 12 - Online Success and FailuresReflection and ConclusionIntroductionIn Chapter 4, some of the main differences between these companies were highlighted. Only data relevant to this study were compared in the previous chapter, to come to the conclusions that will be discussed below. It is important to note that six companies were chosen in South Africa, with different sizes and specialities to get a broader understanding of which methodologies are prominent across the country. Most used Project Management and Software Development MethodologiesBy looking at the case studies in Chapter 3, and some of the questionnaire results in Chapter 4, one can clearly see the preferred Project Management methodology in South Africa is the Agile methodology. This could be largely in part due to the advantages explained in Chapter 2. Other methodologies were also encountered such as the Waterfall methodology, that are found in more traditional organisations. The most used Software development methodology in South Africa was also the Agile methodology, more specifically the SCRUM method. Other methodologies were also used such as DevOps and waterfall. Company C stated that they do not generally follow any Software Development Methodologies, and therefore they used the Waterfall methodology for both Project Management and Software Development. Figure 7 - PM and SDM ChartsCOVID 19 ImpactCOVID 19 clearly had a large impact on the companies. Not only on individual productivity, but also on the team productivity. Four out of the six employees said their personal productivity decreased. This could be due to the fact that most of the companies worked in an online environment during COVID, which they were not yet comfortable with. Five employees stated that the company’s productivity did not decrease, and this could be largely due to the fact that five out of the six companies did not have any problems communicating and collaborating with each other. It was interesting to see that most companies data were very close to each other in regard to the impact of COVID 19, as well as the positive and negative impacts thereof. Although COVID 19 had a large impact on the companies, the data suggests that they found more successes than failures when working in an online environment, especially when it comes to company security. The successes and failures can be view in Table 12.Interesting FindsThere are clearly dominant Project Management and Software Development methodologies that are used in South Africa. It was an interesting find that most of the companies said that there is a difference between Project Management and Software Development methodologies, yet they chose the same methodology for both. Another interesting find was that both Junior Developers were the only employees that believed there are not a separation of function and duty between Project Management and Software Development Methodologies, whereas all senior employees, and those in management believe there is a separation. Security threats increased throughout COVID, but the companies were more than prepared to handle any threat that may arise. COVID 19 had a large impact on the companies, but nothing the companies couldn’t handle. Some personal productivity decreased, but for the most part the company productivity increased. This could be due to the Project Management methodologies such as the Agile methodology, that is used the most in both Project Management and Software Development, seeing as one of the advantages is that changes are welcome. Not only in scope and requirements, but also in the environment that the managers manage, and the developer develop.Future RecommendationsFor any future studies, I recommend gathering more information on not only which project management and software development methodologies were used, but specifically why they chose these methodologies. BibliographyAl-Saqqa, S., Sawalha, S. and AbdelNabi, H.  2020.  Agile software development: Methodologies and trends.  International Journal of Interactive Mobile Technologies, 14(11).AXELOS.  2020.  Prince2® project management certifications Date of access: 2022/10/11 2022.Cervone, H. F.  2011.  Understanding agile project management methods using scrum.  OCLC Systems & Services: International digital library perspectives.Dursun, M. and Goker, N.  2022.  Evaluation of project management methodologies success factors using fuzzy cognitive map method: Waterfall, agile, and lean six sigma cases.  International Journal of Intelligent Systems and Applications in Engineering, 10(1):35-43.Ebert, C., Gallardo, G., Hernantes, J. and Serrano, N.  2016.  Devops.  IEEE Software, 33:94-10.Gokarna, M. and Singh, R.  2021.  Devops: A historical review and future works. (In 2021 International Conference on Computing, Communication, and Intelligent Systems (ICCCIS): IEEE, p. 366-371).ILXGroup.  2022.  What is prince2.  KissFlow.  2021.  Prince2 methodology in project management – a complete overview KnowledgeHut (2022) 'Prince2 certification: Advantages and disadvantages'. Available at: .Laoyan, S.  2021.  Everything you need to know about waterfall project management.  Date of access: 2022/10/12 2022.Leeron Hooray, C. B.  2022.  What is waterfall methodology? Here’s how it can help your project management strategy Machiridza, M.  2016.  Misalignment challenges when integrating security requirements into mobile banking application development.Malsam, W.  2021.  What is prince2? Principles, aspects, roles & processes.  Pace, M.  2019.  A correlational study on project management methodology and project success.  Journal of Engineering, Project, and Production Management, 9(2):56.Shahir, H. Y., Daneshpajouh, S. and Ramsin, R.  2008.  Improvement strategies for agile processes: A swot analysis approach. (In 2008 Sixth International Conference on Software Engineering Research, Management and Applications: IEEE, p. 221-228).Sharma, L.  2021.  Waterfall model Sharma, S. and Coyne, B.  2015.  Devops for dummies. For dummies  United States of America: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.Sherman, R.  2015.  Project management ur Rehman, U.  2017.  Using agile software methodologies for dynamism of requirement and project success: A case study (netsol technologies cmmi-5).  COMSATS Institute of Information Technology Lahore. - WHO.  2020.  Coronavirus disease (covid-19).  Date of access: 2022/10/11 2022.Wideman, R. M.  2002.  Comparing prince2® with pmbok®.  AEW Services, Vancouver, BC, Canada:13-16.Wrike.  2020.  What is the scrum methodology?  Date of access: 2022/10/12 2022.
Facial expression recognition as a tool to determine if students understand a topicHano Lombard Strydomorcid.org 0000-0002-2362-6327Dissertation submitted in partial fulfilment of the requirements for the degree Honours in Computer Science and Information Technology at the North-West UniversitySupervisor:	Mr. Henri van RensburgDate of submission: 	30 October 2022Student Number31597793Abstract Current CFU techniques for determining comprehension are effective in smaller classrooms but not in large lecture halls. Lecturers and other professionals need a tool in large classrooms that can help them get a better understanding of whether the students understand the topic that is being discussed. The aim is to create a system that will be helpful to lecturers, by providing the ability to “read the room” when it comes to teaching in large classrooms. This was accomplished by researching and using a pre-trained facial expression recognition model to identify the students’ facial expressions, and then use that expression to classify whether the student is confused, happy or neutral by comparing the underlying facial characteristics of confusion with Ekman’s six basic emotions. The artefact was developed with the use of technologies such as a webcam and a standard computer and libraries such as OpenCV, face_recognition and matplotlib. The final build provides lecturers with a general sentiment of a classroom, giving them a better understanding of whether students in large classrooms understand the work that is being discussed. Huidige CFU-tegnieke vir die bepaling van begrip is effektief in kleiner klaskamers, maar nie in groot lesingsale nie. Dosente en ander professionele persone benodig 'n hulpmiddel in groot klaskamers wat hulle kan help om 'n beter begrip te kry of die studente die onderwerp wat bespreek word, verstaan. Die doel is om 'n stelsel te skep wat vir dosente nuttig sal wees, deur die vermoë te bied om "die lokaal te lees" wanneer dit by onderrig in groot klaskamers kom. Dit is bewerkstellig deur 'n vooraf-opgeleide gesigsuitdrukkingherkenningsmodel te ondersoek en te gebruik om die studente se gesigsuitdrukkings te identifiseer, en dan daardie uitdrukking te gebruik om te klassifiseer of die student verward, gelukkig of neutraal is. Dit word gedoen deur die onderliggende gesigskenmerke van verwarring met Ekman se basiese emosies ses te vergelyk. Die artefak is ontwikkel met die gebruik van tegnologieë soos 'n webkamera en 'n standaard rekenaar en biblioteke soos OpenCV, face_recognition en matplotlib. Die finale artefak verskaf die algemene sentiment van ‘n klaskamer vir ‘n dosent, wat die dosent dan ‘n beter begrip gee of student in groot klaskamers die werk verstaan wat bespreek word. Keywords:Facial Recognition, Emotion Detection, Checks for understanding, Facial Expression RecognitionTable of contentsList of TablesList of FiguresDefinitionsTable 1 - DefinitionsAbbreviationsTable 2 - AbbreviationsChapter 1 – IntroductionHeading 1 won’t print.  Don’t delete – doing so will lead to incorrect numbering.IntroductionThis project is about finding a solution to the problem that lecturers, teachers and professionals are unable to keep an eye on every student or employee in large classrooms or online environments, allowing them to gauge attention and understanding based on facial expressions. In this project, the aim will be to determine if facial recognition technology can be used to solve this problem. This chapter will provide the study background, problem statement, possible uses, paradigmatic perspective, aims, objectives, research methodology, validity, data collection and its processing, project plan and approach, ethical and legal implications, provisional chapter division, summary and lastly the references.Background to studyThere are numerous techniques for lecturers and teachers to determine whether students in a classroom comprehend the current topic (Fisher & Frey, 2014). These techniques are called “Checks for understanding” or in short “CFU” (Quinzio-Zafran & Wilkins, 2020). The CFU is designed for school classrooms; therefore, not all of these checks can be used in big lecture halls, corporate meetings, or online learning environments.For physical classes, one CFU technique is to use oral language (Quinzio-Zafran & Wilkins, 2020), like asking questions (Finley, 2014). Because of time constraints, lecturers are unable to enquire every student in big classrooms about their understanding of the topic (Kopf et al., 2005). Alternatively, lecturers rely on students’ facial expressions to determine the student’s understanding of the topic (Sathik & Jonathan, 2013). However, checking everyone's facial expressions can be challenging in large classrooms or online learning environments (Kopf et al., 2005).COVID-19 forced education to switch to an online delivery mode, creating new challenges for lecturers and teachers alike (Paudel, 2021). The primary obstacle for students was acquiring the necessary technology to participate in these online classes (Alshamrani, 2019). For lecturers, a proven disadvantage is that the social interaction between students and lecturers, and the opportunity to observe students’ behaviour was significantly decreased (Lamanauskas & Makarskaite-Petkeviciene, 2021). Lecturers must look at the textbook, their notes, or slides on the screen, and is not always able to keep an eye on all the students attending the class, therefore unable to observe the students’ facial expression and determine if the students understand the topic.Considering the concerns discussed above, it appears that lecturers, teachers, and professionals need to be able to “read the room” without physically having to pay attention to each individual student. This study will attempt to fill the gap by providing a way for lecturers to determine how many students understand the current topic at hand, without physically paying attention to the individual students.Problem statementLecturers, teachers, and professionals require a method to use in large lecture halls and online environments for determining whether students or employees comprehend current topics. Previous methods include the CFU techniques, but these options don’t allow the lecturer to read the whole room. As mentioned previously, conventional CFU techniques are insufficient for large classrooms or online learning environments.Would a system that enables lecturers to “read the room” without having to physically look at each student, be advantageous for a lecturer? Where would such a proposed system be advantageous?This system can be used in a variety of environments. It is suitable for use in large lecture halls, classrooms, online environments, and corporate meetings. Anywhere a lecturer, teacher, or corporate staff member is required to determine whether students or employees understand the topic at hand.Research aims and objectivesA well-defined research objective is critical for establishing the project's purpose. Additionally, there should be a clear list of objectives that must be met for the research objective to be accomplished. Achieving the aim and completing the set objectives will allow the lecturers to read the room and get a better understanding of what the students are feeling during classes.Research aimThe aim is to create a system that will be helpful to lecturers, by providing the ability to “read the room” when it comes to teaching, using facial expression recognition.Research objectivesTo accomplish the above-mentioned aim, there are certain objectives that the researcher will need to reachResearch current methods to determine if students understand their workAnalyse facial expressions and how those emotions are displayedExploring facial detection techniques and how it worksSurvey lecturers and students to get a better understanding of what would be beneficial to themComparison between different types of facial detection and expression programs Developing an artefact using the above-mentioned programs Evaluating if the proposed artefact will be able to identify common emotions linked to understanding Study designResearch ParadigmA paradigm is described as a collection of shared beliefs and consensus among scientists about the proper way to approach and solve problems (Kuhn, 1970). Choosing the appropriate paradigm is critical when conducting research because it defines how the researcher thinks and interprets the data gathered (Kivunja & Kuyini, 2017). It also helps us shape the following fundamental elements: ontology, epistemology, axiology, and methodology (Park et al., 2020).The research paradigm that will be used during this study is Positivism. Positivism states that the world is independent, meaning that people cannot change nature’s laws.  Researchers will gain knowledge through observation and experimentation, without changing the nature of the environment.  (Rehman & Alharthi, 2016). The experiments of this study will be done objectively from a distance, not bothering the students while they attend class. Surveys and questionnaires are a collection method for this paradigm and can be used to determine whether the experiments achieved accurate results. This paradigm makes use of quantitative data (Sousa, 2010), therefore a methodology will be used that supports this paradigm. Numerous methodologies can be used, but the one that will be used in this study is “Design Science Research”.Research MethodologyAs mentioned above, the research methodology that will be used in this project is “Design Science Research”, hereinafter referred to as DSR. DSRs’ main goal is to create an artefact that will solve a specific problem and then evaluate it afterwards. The reason why this methodology is suitable for this project is that DSR helps us achieve two goals in this project: Researching the problem and creating a solution to the problem (Dresch et al., 2015). Using DSR, quantitative data will be gathered from the artefact and the participants, and this data will be analysed and compared to determine whether or not the artefact yields positive results, thereby providing an answer to the problem identified. To achieve the goal of creating an artefact that will solve the problem identified in the problem statement, the DSR steps need to be taken (Peffers et al., 2007):Identify the problem - Chapter 1This section contains the problem identified in the problem statement, as well as the justification for its resolution.List the objectives that need to be met in order to solve the problem - Chapters 1 and 2Eight objectives must be met, as stated in the "Aims and Objectives" section of Chapter 1. To accomplish these goals, research must be conducted. This is part of Chapter 2 - Literature.Design and develop the artefact - Chapter 3Using the research from Chapter 2, an artefact will be designed and developed to address the problem identified, using the Iterative system development life cycle, that will be discussed in section 3.3. Implement the artefact - Chapter 3This step is typically where the artefact is put into practice. However, for this project, the artefact will not be used in classrooms or online environments, but rather will be subjected to tests and experiments with a select group of participants to identify whether this solution will work in practice.Evaluate the artefact - Chapters 4 and 5The artefact will be tested on participants, with the results being noted. The participants will then complete a survey, the results of which will be compared to the artefact’s result.Conclusion - Chapters 4 and 5Following the completion of the tests in step 6, the results will be compared to determine whether or not the artefact successfully resolved the identified problem of assisting lecturers in lecture halls to determine whether students understand the current topic at hand.Additionally, advice and errors will be listed to ensure that other researchers do not make the same errors.Research methodologyAs mentioned previously in the section on study design, throughout this project, "Design Science Research" will be used to collect data from the artefact and the participants. These data are critical to the methodology and research project in order to determine if it is a viable solution to the identified problem.Process of obtaining informed consentConsent must be obtained from participants prior to data collection. If the document is in physical form, the participant must read and sign it. If the form is online, the participant must first select a radio button before the survey or questionnaire can be accessed. Data collectionDuring this project, the positivism paradigm and DSR methodology are used. This means that quantitative data will be collected. Quantitative data is numerical values that can be used to answer questions (Apuke, 2017). Numerical values can be used to group and compare, making it easy to analyse the data.Data collection toolThere are numerous quantitative data collection tools available, including surveys, questionnaires, observations, and experiments (Sukamolson, 2007). All of the tools listed above will be used to collect quantitative data for this project. Surveys will be used to elicit responses from participants' emotions. These data will be compared to the artefact's results to determine whether they were accurate. Observations will be used to gather researcher input to compare to the results of the artefacts. Experiments with the artefact will be conducted to gather data and improve the artefact.Rigour, validity, and reliabilityWhen doing research, it is important that the research is not lacking rigour, meaning it must be thorough. To ensure this, the researcher must follow the mentors’ advice, not be biased, and be careful when conducting experiments and recording the findings of the experiment and surveys. Validity is very important because it determines whether the study is logically and factually sound. Reliability refers to how consistent the results are being measured (Heale & Twycross, 2015). Reliable data does not ensure validity, but usually, validity ensures reliability. To ensure reliability, the surveys, questionnaires, and experiments will be done in the same environments, respectively. To ensure validity, the measuring tool must be able to measure what it says it can (Sürücü & Maslakçi, 2020).To ensure reliability, all surveys and questionnaires are the same and will be answered in the same environment. The experiments and surveys should also give the specific results that this study aims to achieve.Legal and Ethical considerationsWhen it comes to facial recognition, there are a plethora of ethical considerations. The primary consideration is the storage of facial recognition data. According to the "Protection of Personal Information Act No.4 of 2013," or more commonly known as the POPIA, students must be informed that facial recognition technology will be used (Government, 2019) and that their facial features will be used in an algorithm to determine their current emotion. Additionally, it will be stated that no personal information gathered from the recordings will be stored in a database.Another consideration is the use of information that will be gathered through questionnaires and surveys. The collected data will not be shared or sold to third parties and will be used solely for research purposes. A data ethics form will be completed, ensuring that all necessary steps are taken with the data. This also contributes to the project's validity and reliability.Permission and informed consentAll subjects will be informed in advance of any recording or use of facial recognition technologies, and the aforementioned considerations will be made clear to them.AnonymityBecause no personal data such as names, surnames, or student numbers will be collected, subjects will remain anonymous. The facial recognition will occur in real-time, which means that no recordings will be stored in a database. Only generalised data from users’ facial features will be used in the algorithms, further ensuring the subjects' anonymity.ConfidentialitySince no personal data about subjects will be stored in a database, all personal information about them will be kept strictly confidential. Non-personal information will be used solely for research purposes and will not be shared or sold to third parties.Approach to project management and project planWhen conducting research, it is very important to address the following: Scope, limitations, and risks. The scope is, in essence, the aim of the project. The limitations are the restrictions that can take place, and that must be accounted for. The risks are things that could possibly go wrong during the project. To make a success of this project, proper planning needs to be done, and all deadlines must be reached within time. A Gantt chart will be used to do the planning, along with the due dates provided. ScopeThe scope of this project is to determine whether facial recognition can be used to assist lecturers, teachers, and professionals in their daily lives to determine if students or employees understand the topic at hand. The technology that will be used is a 1080p Hikvision web camera. The system will be written in python using Visual Studio Code and Visual Studio 2019.LimitationsLimitations are any facts or events that the researcher cannot control. Sometimes these limitations are predictable, and sometimes these limitations are unpredictable (Price & Murnan, 2004). In this research project, there are two known limitations:TimeThe final documentation, artefact and poster should be finished by the 27th of October. TechnologyMost facial recognition algorithms are written in Python, and therefore I have to code in Python to make use of facial recognition algorithms and libraries such as “OpenCV”.RisksA big risk that can occur is if students do not consent to be recorded on a camera for research purposes. Another risk could also be that the existing libraries and code for recognising facial expressions do not contain the main expression that will be focused on. Project planThe following dates are important as they are the due dates of the different project parts. It is very important to stick with the planning that will be displayed in the Gantt Chart to ensure the deadlines are met in time. The figure below will provide a timeline that will be followed. The table below consists of two columns: Date and Description. The dates are the due dates provided to the researcher. The description table describes what should be submitted on the given date. It is very important that the Gantt chart is followed to ensure the due dates are met.Table 3 - Due DatesTable 4 - Gantt chart tasksFigure 1 - Gantt ChartProvisional chapter divisionBelow is an overview of the chapters that will be present in this research project.Chapter 1 – Introduction: This section will focus on everything before the literature study. It covers the background of the project and what is the problem identified. There will also be looked at the aim of the project and the objectives that need to be reached, along with a project plan. The paradigm and methods will also be discussed.Chapter 2 – Literature review:The literature review will include research that has been conducted to aid in the completion of the objectives stated under "Aims and Objectives." Three topics will be discussed: current research methods for determining whether students understand a topic, facial expressions and their connected emotions, and finally, facial detection and recognition. Chapter 3 – Artefact planning and development:This chapter will outline the steps necessary to complete and test the artefact on time. The research used in the literature review will determine what technology and algorithms will be used to develop this artefact. Additionally, documentation will be completed during the planning and development of the artefact, which will contribute to the Chapter 5 reflection. Subjects will also be tested, and a questionnaire will be completed to determine whether the artefact correctly predicted the emotion the subject was experiencing at the time.Chapter 4 – ResultsThe results of this project will be discussed in this chapter, where the research question will be answered. There will also be an overview of Chapter 3 to determine whether the artefact was successful in detecting the subjects’ emotions.Chapter 5 – ReflectionThis chapter will focus on the researchers’ experience throughout the project, the lessons learned and what could have been done differently. The reflection is critical because it could inform other researchers of potential mistakes and how to avoid them.SummaryIn summary, this chapter concluded the following: The current methods teachers, lecturers and professionals use to check student or employee understanding are insufficient for large- and online environments. In the problem statement, there is concluded that there is a need for lecturers and professionals to be able to keep an eye on everyone, without physically looking at them. The proposed system is applicable in numerous environments, but the main focus will be on large lecture halls and online environments.The project aims to equip lecturers with the ability to read the room. To achieve this aim, seven objectives have been identified that must be addressed and accomplished. To ensure that these objectives are met, a Gantt chart will be used, and the scope of the project will be revisited to ensure that the researcher remains focused on the problem. Throughout this project, the positivism paradigm will be followed, and the methodology that will be used is Design science research. By adhering to this paradigm and methodology, rigour, validity, and reliability are ensured. Seeing that facial features will be captured and data extracted from it, legal- and ethical considerations, risks and limitations should be kept in mind. Consent will be obtained, and participants will be kept anonymous and their data confidential. Lastly, the five provisional chapters were laid out, which will be discussed in further detail in the subsequent chapters.Chapter 2 – Literature ReviewHeading 1 won’t print.  Don’t delete – doing so will lead to incorrect numbering.IntroductionThis Chapter will include research that will be addressing the aim of creating a system that will aid lecturers in classrooms.  It will explore the existing methods for determining comprehension, as well as their advantages and disadvantages. Following this, facial expressions seen in lecture rooms will be analysed and discussed. Lastly, facial detection techniques will be investigated, and its applications will be discussed.Discussing the topics above will give the necessary information to develop an artefact in Chapter 3 and aid the researcher in answering the research question. Methods to determine if students understand their workIntroductionThere are numerous techniques for lecturers and teachers to determine whether students in a classroom comprehend the current topic (Fisher & Frey, 2014). It can be done via assessments, CFU techniques and student feedback. Each of these methods has its benefits and drawbacks that will be discussed. It is crucial to determine whether students comprehend the work being covered in class because the lecturer needs this information to determine which areas to spend more time on, and which parts of the subject the students have more difficulty understanding. The following three methods for measuring student comprehension will be discussed and compared: assessments, CFU techniques, and student feedback.AssessmentsAssessments are very important in any type of education (Taras, 2008). It enables instructors to determine how effectively students comprehend the subject and its topics. The lecturers can then structure their teaching methods and determine where further focus is required (Tosuncuoglu, 2018). There are two types of assessments that are most commonly used by lecturers to assess students (Dixson & Worrell, 2016):Formative assessmentsSummative assessmentsFormative assessment is a way teachers and lecturers receive feedback, and check for understanding during the learning process (Andersson, 2008). In-class discussions, weekly quizzes and homework assignments can be considered as formative assessments. Formative assessment takes place during the semester and the lecturer should be able to use this assessment to identify, analyse and respond to the problems of students (Hunt & Pellegrino, 2002). The following advantages and disadvantages of formative assessments are described by Ahmad- and Jeelani Bhat (2019).Advantages of Formative AssessmentsProvides information to lecturersFormative assessment provides valuable information to lecturers during classes and assessment periods to determine if students understand topics. Provides feedback to students Using these assessment methods, students can also become aware of the topics they do not understand before they write summative assessments.  Adjusting teaching methods Lecturers can use this assessment method to help them adjust their teaching methods that enable them to help students understand certain topics. Disadvantages of Formative AssessmentsTimeLecturers have a lot of material to cover in class and don't always have enough time to conduct formative assessments like class discussions and quizzes.Lack of participationStudents are very shy in larger classrooms and may not participate in classes. During quizzes that may not count towards their grade, students may not care about the assessments, and not take them seriously.Lack of training or experienceWithout proper training or experience, lecturers may not know how to analyse these types of assessments to determine where a gap is in students’ understanding.Summative assessments are usually formal assessments taken at a specific point in time (Garrison & Ehringhaus, 2007), like semester tests and exams during or at the end of a semester. The purpose of summative assessments is to see how good students understand the subject after a certain time, or the amount of work handled, and assign a grade to the student (Angelo & Cross, 1993). There are certain advantages described by Ahmad- and Jeelani Bhat (2019) that will be discussed below: Advantages of Summative Assessments Test student knowledge after a time period Tests and exams can be used by lecturers to assess their students. This will provide quantitative data on how well students comprehend the subject and its many topics. Because these assessments take place periodically throughout the semester, lecturers can utilize the data to identify if students are improving.Marks and Grades These assessments are typically used to grade students and determine whether they have adequate knowledge to pass a module. In order to pass, this assessment method motivates students to study the subject and its topics. Identify weak areas Lecturers utilize this data to determine where additional attention is needed, and which topics students are struggling with. Disadvantages of Summative Assessments:Guessing multiple choice questions (Qu & Zhang, 2013)During summative assessments, multiple choice questions can be asked, and students can guess the correct answer, without understanding the work. This may give inaccurate information to the lecturer, leading them to believe that most students understand the work. Cannot improve understanding after an examination (Ishaq et al., 2020)Exams are at the end of a semester. The marks determine whether students pass. The drawback with this type of assessment is that if you see students struggling with certain topics, it is too late to help them because it is the end of the semester or year. Not a true representation of understanding (Ishaq et al., 2020)Tests and exams are very stressful, causing students to hit a ‘blank’, meaning they stress so much that they forget the work studied, but this can be a sign of the last disadvantage explained next. Summative assessments test memory more than knowledge (Sporer, 2022)During the exam and test periods, students are more likely to memorise the work, rather than understand it. Thus, summative assessment marks don’t always reflect students’ understanding, but rather their memory. CFU techniquesCFU is an abbreviation for “Checks for understanding”. The CFU techniques are designed for school classrooms; therefore, not all these checks can be used in big lecture halls, corporate meetings, or online learning environments. CFU techniques are useful in smaller classes, but in big classrooms, time constraints make it much more difficult (Kopf et al., 2005). According to Fisher and Frey (2014), there are numerous ways of checking understanding among students, a few of them are oral language, facial expressions, hand gestures and tests. A short description of these examples will follow: Oral LanguageOral language encompasses all verbal communication in the classroom. The most typical type involves lecturers asking students to demonstrate their comprehension of a topic (Dufour, 2021).Facial ExpressionsTeachers and lecturers rely heavily on facial expressions to determine whether or not students comprehend the subjects (Butt & Iqbal, 2011). Emotions are one of the hardest things to conceal among students. It is a technique for lecturers and teachers to determine whether or not students grasp the material without directly communicating with students or poor performance in tests, as explained in the section on assessments (Fisher & Frey, 2014). Hand gesturesLecturers may request that students raise their hands if they comprehend or do not comprehend the material covered in class. The lecturers will then use this information to evaluate if they need to revisit the topics (McTighe, 2021). TestsThis may consist of a combination of formative and summative assessments, as described in the previous section. The downsides have been mentioned previously. Each of the aforementioned CFU techniques has its own advantages and disadvantages, specifically when it comes to large classrooms, but the most notable downsides are summarised inTable 5 to see how they might, later on, be improved and even used to help lecturers. Table 5 - CFU DisadvantagesStudent FeedbackStudent feedback is important to lecturers because it gives lecturers the chance to address problems and topics head-on. The student feedback technique relies on the cooperation of students. In order to establish whether the proposed system would be feasible, a voluntary survey was conducted among university students. The survey received 31 responses from various students, and the detailed results of this survey can be found in Appendix A. According to the survey results, 58% of students are shy and would not want to be personally addressed and 58.8% of students would not raise their hands in class. There are several ways students engage with lecturers, but the two most common are raising their hands in class and seeing the professors in their offices. These two techniques will be discussed below: Hand RaisingHand-raising is a common behaviour by students in classes. It allows them to participate and draw the lecturer’s attention to ask for explanations (Böheim, 2020). Unfortunately, one drawback is that most students are shy about raising their hands in large classes (Kettner, 2015), and therefore a new way should be determined to gather student feedback. Visiting lecturers in the officeVisiting a lecturer can be daunting for students, and most students would prefer not to see lecturers in their offices during office hours. Lecturers are unable to help and assist students that do not seek any help. SummaryLecturers wish to be able to assist students in thoroughly understanding and comprehending the work prior to exams and assessments, not only to increase students' grades but also to enhance their comprehension and prepare them for the workplace.Assessments can be an effective method for gauging pupils' understanding; however, they are typically administered too late. As Ishaq et al. (2020)  noted, students tend to become anxious and forget their work, which can lead to poor performance. This may be due in part to the fact that students memorize rather than comprehend their work.Because the majority of students do not feel comfortable engaging in in-class activities or visiting lecturers during office hours, student feedback is unreliable and difficult to use as an indicator of student understanding. Checks for understanding are an excellent approach for determining if students comprehend the material prior to tests and exams. The issue with CFU techniques is that they are extremely time-consuming and challenging to apply. The oral language and hand gesture CFU techniques are not reliable, seeing it requires student participation to be successful, and most of them are too shy to participate. Tests are too late, and lecturers are unable to see everyone’s facial expressions during a class. As indicated in the CFU techniques section, reading facial expressions is an effective CFU technique, however, it is very time-consuming and just not feasible in large classrooms. Assisting professors and aiding students will be revolutionized by the development of a system that will read and understand facial expressions, without lecturers spending time individually looking at students. This chapter brings us closer to the question of whether there is a way to improve the CFU techniques, allowing lecturers to get a better understanding of whether their students understand a topic. The next section will discuss the role of facial expressions in classrooms and their connected emotions.Facial expressions and connected emotionsIntroductionIn the previous section, it was established that the CFU techniques of utilising facial expressions in a classroom to properly identify whether pupils grasp the content, is a good approach to address the issues in large lecture halls. Now it has to be identified which facial expressions are encountered in classrooms, and what their associated emotions actually mean.Different facial movements and muscle positions result in a specific expression (Butt & Iqbal, 2011). Facial expressions are a universal way to express emotion. Different things may infuriate various individuals, yet the facial muscles and movements are nearly identical among them (Ekman & Keltner, 1997). People struggle to conceal their emotions since emotions are spontaneous (Dimberg et al., 2000).  This chapter will explore facial expressions in classrooms, their associated emotions, their importance, and the technologies used to detect them. Classroom facial expressions and it’s connected emotionThere are six types of emotions most commonly noticed on people: disgust, sadness, happiness, fear, anger, and surprise (Yang & Hirschberg, 2018). All these emotions can be encountered in classrooms. A smile may be an indication of happiness, and crossed eyebrows and a frown may be seen as anger or disgust. An open mouth and big eyes may be an indication of surprise. But one expression that is encountered a lot in classes is the “confused” facial expression. But what is considered as confused? Confusion is an emotion connected to knowledge, meaning it is an epistemic emotion. It causes cognitive disequilibrium, meaning learners face situations such as obstacles to goals, contradictions, incongruities, anomalies, and conflicts (D’Mello & Graesser, 2012). These obstacles can be anything from not understanding certain work or struggling to achieve good grades. Confusion can be picked up by looking at the facial expressions of students. A study was done and found that lowered eyebrows, frowns and tightened lids were associated with confused expressions (D’Mello & Graesser, 2014). Silvia (2013) stated that confusion makes people frustrated, which makes people scrunch, and lower their eyebrows and furrow which is caused by frowning. When looking at these expressions and actions, it can also be associated with other emotions, such as anger, sadness, fear and disgust. People that are angry will frown, and their brows will furrow (Reed et al., 2012), people that are sad or scared will also have their brows furrowed and have lowered eyebrows (Kohler et al., 2004) and finally, disgusted people will scrunch and their lids will tighten (Pochedly et al., 2012). All these expressions can also convey that students may experience confusion. Importance of these expressionsAs mentioned previously, confusion causes cognitive disequilibrium, and students need to overcome this disequilibrium in order to move on (Arguel et al., 2019) and get a better understanding of the work. For a lecturer to improve classes or the way they present certain topics, they accurately need to understand the expressions of the students. Whether it is confusion, boredom, anger, happiness, or any expression the lecturer can identify within a classroom.   Lecturers will use this information to make the necessary changes during a lecture. Even though it can be an accurate way to determine the understanding of students, it is very difficult for lecturers to read all the faces of the students during a class, because there are too many students to keep an eye on at all times. Another big problem that can be encountered is alexithymia. Alexithymia is a disability, making it very difficult or even impossible for students to identify their own, or others’ emotions (Taylor, 2000). Alexithymia is not a rare disability. One in every ten people has Alexithymia (Cherney, 2021). Even in the rare case a lecturer doesn’t find it difficult to observe an entire classroom, the lecturer may have Alexithymia making it impossible to determine which facial expressions and emotions the students are currently expressing. These problems may be solved by using technologies with certain algorithms, allowing lecturers to get feedback on the facial expressions of students. Technologies and algorithms for recognizing facial expressionsTo create a system that allows lecturers to read the room, another pair of “eyes” need to be available. There also needs to be a way for the system to communicate with the lecturer and let them know what it is currently perceiving. For the system to know what it is perceiving, an algorithm needs to be determined and implemented into the system. This means the system can be divided into 2 sections, technology, and workings, also known as the algorithms and coding.Technologies and algorithms are very important throughout this project because the technologies, such as cameras, will be used as an extra pair of eyes that the lecturers can use to their advantage. It will be used to perceive the students’ facial expressions. The algorithms are the brain of the system and will take the percepts/observations from the camera, analyse the facial expression, and determine whether the student comprehends the work being discussed. This system can be seen as an agent. An agent can be seen as anything that perceives the environment through sensors and acts upon that environment through actuators (Russel & Norvig, 2021).    The following Figure 2 demonstrates the working of an agent. The Agent is the system, and the environment is the classroom. The Sensor is the camera that perceives the environment. The actuator is the display that shows the result to the lecturer. The question mark is “brain” or the intelligence of the agent. In this case, it’s the algorithms and code making it possible for the agent to detect whether the student understands the topic being discussed. Figure 2 - Basic Agent Working (Russel & Norvig, 2021)The technologies that can be used to develop the proposed system should therefore have appropriate sensors and actuators:SensorsCamerasThese cameras will be used as the “eyes” as mentioned above. It will be used to observe the large classrooms and give input to the system. Actuators ComputerIn order for the program to run, a computer needs to be used. It needs to be a mid-range computer. Preferably with an Intel i5 CPU or higher. It also needs a USB port to connect a camera. Computer ScreenThis is where the output will be displayed to the lecturer of how many students do not understand the topics being discussed.Agent’s Intelligence refers to the “brain” of the system. This “brain” needs to be able to receive information from the technologies such as sensors and analyse it with the use of algorithms and programs.Algorithms and ProgramsThere are numerous algorithms and code that can be used in order to assess facial expressions. The workings of these algorithms are discussed in “How facial detection and recognition work”. Numerous algorithms can be used and implemented, and a few algorithms will be researched and tested in Chapter 3 of this search project. SummaryFacial expressions are something everyone has. It is a trustworthy and valid method to determine whether a student understands a topic and the work that is being discussed. There are six common expressions, but the expression that is the most relevant to this study is confusion. This facial expression can be seen as lowered eyebrows and tightened eyelids. These emotions are very important to lecturers because it allows them to get a better understanding of whether or not the students are taking in the work, and how much they understand the topics being discussed. It was noted that it is difficult for lecturers to keep an eye on every student, or in some cases, it is impossible for them to determine which emotion is displayed by students and therefore need some help with another pair of “eyes”.Technologies and programs or algorithms, also known as an agent, can be used to assist the lecturer. The programs and algorithms will use the input received from cameras and determine whether students understand their work. These results will be displayed on a screen assessable by the lecturer. This study will provide some background on how facial detection and recognition work.Facial detection and recognitionIntroductionFacial recognition is used to identify and verify an individual’s identity and can be used in various scenarios such as security and entertainment (Mohammad, 2020). Facial recognition can be largely attributed to Woodrow Wilson Bledsoe. In the 1960s, Bledsoe created a database of thousands of images, in his efforts to create a face-identifying system (Libby & Ehrenfeld, 2021). Facial detection is a part of facial recognition which is a popular subject when it comes to biometrics (Khan et al., 2019). The difference between facial detection and facial recognition is that facial detection involves the detection of an image or video. This means the system will detect whether there is a  face on the image or video provided (Kumar et al., 2019). The system can be programmed to draw a square around the detected faces. The proposed system will use facial detection, and not facial recognition, seeing the aim of this project is not to determine whom the person perceived is, but rather to analyse the facial features using facial detection algorithms. This algorithm will determine which emotion the student is experiencing and use that information to get an understanding of whether the student comprehends the topics being discussed. During this section, it will be discussed how facial detection and recognition work, along with current facial detection and recognition applications, and the advantages and disadvantages thereof.How facial detection and recognition workFacial detection is the method of determining whether a human face is detected within an image (Nagpal et al., 2018). There are different methods that can be used to detect faces, such as template-matching methods, feature invariant methods, and appearances-based methods. (Dilawar & Siddiqui, 2016) Template-matching methods involve finding the correlation between the source image and a testing image of a face (Ping et al., 2003). If there is a high correlation, it means that a face was detected in the source image. Scale invariant feature transform, also known as SIFT, can be seen as a feature invariant method because it is a technique for detecting and extracting visual features (Gupta et al., 2021). It identifies key points called descriptors (Lindeberg, 2012) and provides them with quantitative information that may be utilized for object recognition. SIFT is not recommended for facial detection, because SIFT is good with general object detection, which is rigid with sharp edges, where faces are non-rigid and smooth (Geng & Jiang, 2009). Appearance-based methods like Eigenface. The Eigenfaces approach consists of extracting distinctive facial features and portraying the face as a linear combination of the so-called 'eigenfaces' derived from the feature extraction procedure. (üge Çarıkçı & Özen, 2012)Another prominent facial detection method is the Histogram of oriented gradients, also known as HOG. HOG may be viewed as a more dense variant of SIFT (Pang et al., 2011). Gradient direction density statistics can characterize the shape and colour of a local image object, such as a human face. Since an image's gradient lies at the edge of a local object, its oriented gradient histogram indicates the edge direction density of detection targets (Li et al., 2016).Face expression recognition, also known as “FER”, is the method of using either descriptors or Facial Characteristic Points to determine which facial expression is expressed. The efficiency of FER depends on how accurate the facial features can be extracted for the descriptor (Anil & Suresh, 2016). Appearance features and geometric features are the two methods used to extract facial features (Revina & Emmanuel, 2021). Appearance featuresGenerally, appearance-based methods extract the textural variations of face images using a variety of descriptors (Yu & Liu, 2015). The descriptors of different facial features will show a high variance, while descriptors of the same facial features will show little to no variance (Anil & Suresh, 2016). Geometric featuresDuring this method, a facial image is segmented into three parts regions, the mouth, nose and eyes and eyebrows. Facial Characteristic Points, also known as “FCP”, are located for each of these segments (Youssif & Asker, 2011). Using these FCPs the algorithm can then determine the distances and movement between the facial features and then determine which facial expression is most likely expressed. In conclusion, two methods can be used to achieve FER, but for these methods to work, technologies and algorithms are needed as discussed in Section 2.3.4: Technologies and algorithms for recognizing facial expressions. Applications of facial detection and recognitionAs mentioned in the introduction, facial detection is used within facial recognition. Facial detection and recognition can be used in various fields such as security, biometrics and law enforcement (Bernstein, 2020). These general applications will be discussed below: SecurityHumans can only remember a certain number of faces, while computers with large memories can store thousands, if not millions of faces. This is a breakthrough in the field of security. Facial detection and recognition can be used in crowd surveillance, such as in airports and private security (Balla & Jadhao, 2018). BiometricsBiometric recognition is the automatic recognition of people, using their physical features (Delac & Grgic, 2004) such as fingers, voice and face (Woodward Jr et al., 2003). Biometrics can be used at your home or business. Your face can be used to unlock a device such as your cell phone and your fingerprint can be used to clock into work. Law EnforcementFacial detection and recognition are used by law enforcement, by using surveillance cameras to detect people’s faces and compare them to their database of criminals and people with arrest warrants (Garvie & Frankle, 2016). Some may see this as unethical, as discussed in the Advantages and Disadvantages of facial detection and recognition section, but according to a study done by Smith (2019), 59% of the people that participated in the survey said they find it acceptable that law enforcement can use facial recognition in public spaces. OtherAlthough facial detection and recognition are mostly used in the areas mentioned above, it is not limited to those areas. This proposed system is aimed to be implemented in classrooms to assist lecturers. It has nothing to do with security, biometrics, or law enforcement, but rather for educational purposes. Advantages and Disadvantages of facial detection and recognitionThere are numerous advantages and disadvantages in various fields of the application when it comes to facial detection and recognition. Some advantages can also be disadvantages, which will be discussed below. AdvantagesSecurityFacial detection and recognition can be used for security purposes, in either airports or public spaces. Facial detection and recognition make it possible for a computer to detect humans by their facial characteristics (Owayjan et al., 2015). It can be used to detect any criminals or people with arrest warrants (Garvie & Frankle, 2016). BiometricsBiometrics is an authentication method that automates the identification of a person based on their facial features (Omoyiola, 2018). Facial detection and recognition can be used as a password or two-factor authentication in protecting or accessing important information or devices. It is much more secure and convenient than the traditional password system (Vazquez-Fernandez & Gonzalez-Jimenez, 2016).MedicalBy evaluating subtle facial features, facial detection and recognition can, in some instances, pinpoint how specific genetic mutations caused a particular syndrome. The method may be faster and less expensive than standard genetic testing (Gargaro, 2022). AttendanceFacial detection and recognition can be used in schools or businesses to determine who attended the class or clocked into work on a specific morning. Facial detection and recognition are one of the main methods of recording attendance because it requires virtually zero effort from the students (Kar et al., 2012). Businesses use it because it is much less time-consuming than for the management to do it manually (Arsenovic et al., 2017).DisadvantagesPrivacyFacial recognition is a form of surveillance technology that can be used to identify and track individuals. This allows a company or government to gather information about the habits, lifestyles, and interests of individuals (Wright, 2018). According to a study done by Institute (2019), 77% of people surveyed do not feel comfortable with companies using facial recognition technologies. Section 14 of the South African Constitution states that everyone has the right to privacy (Government, 1996), which facial detection and recognition can infringe. Racial DiscriminationFacial detection and recognition have a hard time identifying people of colour and in some cases even be biased against people of colour (Garvie & Frankle, 2016). This problem originates from machine learning on a particular database of faces (Libby & Ehrenfeld, 2021). This means that when Facial Recognition algorithms are trained using a database predominantly Caucasians, the facial recognition of Caucasians would be much more accurate than that of dark-skinned individuals. FraudFacial detection and recognition can be used to collect personal information, video, and images and that can be used in fraudulent activities (Gargaro, 2022). Programs and applications like “DeepFakes” can be used to imitate certain people and that can cause a lot of trouble including theft, fraud and even wars (Korshunov & Marcel, 2018).SummaryThere are mainly two ways that a system can determine facial expressions and their connected emotions. Either through descriptors, using the appearance feature method or facial characteristics points, or by using geometric features. Numerous algorithms can be used with either of these methods which will be further discussed and researched in Chapter 3.It was determined that facial detection and recognition technologies and applications are widely used in numerous environments such as biometrics, law enforcement and security. Facial detection and recognition are not limited to any field and can be found nearly everywhere in today’s world and are still being developed and improved upon every day. Although facial detection and recognition can improve and make our lives easier every day, there are several advantages and disadvantages that need to be considered when using these technologies and algorithms. Taking all the disadvantages into account, one can determine that the main concern of facial detection and recognition for this research is privacy. This issue can easily be addressed by informing participants of their rights and to stay within the law and Constitution. One key takeaway of all the advantages mentioned is that it is essential for the algorithm to detect a human face before it can recognise who it is, or in the case of this study, what expression they are expressing. It was established that the proposed system is applicable because it addresses the problem that current CFU techniques are not sufficient for large lecture halls, and how technologies and algorithms are used in the two FER methods. In the next Chapter, the technologies and algorithms will be researched more in detail, tested, and integrated into an artefact that will allow lecturers to use this proposed system to determine whether students understand the work being discussed.cHAPTER 3 – artefact plANNING AND DEVELOPMENTThis heading won’t printIntroductionDuring the study, it was determined that lecturers and other professionals need a tool in classrooms that can help them get a better understanding of whether the students understand the topic being discussed. A way to solve this problem is to use technology, such as a camera, and a program, otherwise known as the artefact. The artefact will aim to detect faces, determine whether the student is confused based on their expression and then provide feedback to the lecturer. The lecturer will be able to see on the screen the number of students that possibly do not understand the topics being discussed and can change the lecture accordingly. The artefact will also be able to keep track of the general sentiment for a given time period provided by the lecturer and save those values along with the date and time to a CSV file. A function will then create a line chart with these values to show a visual representation of the data. Description of artefactThe artefact will display the classroom of students, with their faces blurred out, and a text telling the lecturer how many students are confused at that current moment. The lecturer will specify a time that the program should keep track of the general sentiment, and the results will be displayed in the python console. It will also be written to a CSV file for later viewing. After the program has been terminated, a graph will be displayed with the emotions and the timestamps, giving a graphical representation of the sentiment results during class.In order to address the problem identified in Chapter 1, the artefact should attempt to accomplish the following:Detect all the faces in the frameDetermine each facial expression of the individual facesDetermine whether the emotion expressed may be classified as confusionShow the general sentiment for that frameKeep track of the general sentiment for a determined time periodShow and save the general sentiment in a comma-separated values fileThe life cycle followed and its different phasesThroughout this project, the design science research method was followed as discussed in Section 1.5.3.2. It was determined that 6 steps needed to be followed to achieve the goal of developing an artefact that will address the problem identified. Step one, planning, and step two, defining requirements were addressed during Chapter 1 and Chapter 2. Step three is about planning, designing, and developing the artefact. For the development to be a success, a system development life cycle, also known as SDLC, needs to be followed. The term SDLC can be described as the phases an artefact or product passes through, from the original idea to the final product (Jirava, 2004). The SDLC has 6 main phases as illustrated in Table 6, which are planning, defining requirements,  designing, developing, testing and deployment (Shylesh, 2017). Table 6 - SDLC PhasesFigure 3 -Software Development Life CycleThere are different types of life cycles that can be used from different methodologies, and these life cycles are variations of the SDLC, such as the Waterfall life cycle, agile life cycle and iterative life cycle. The life cycle followed for developing the artefact for this study is the iterative life cycle. Figure 4 - Iterative Life Cycle (Okesola et al., 2020)The iterative life cycle uses iterations called builds to develop the artefact. Each build is a series of repeated cycles used to add functionality to the artefact. Figure 4 is used to show how the iterative life cycle works (Okesola et al., 2020). Clear requirements are needed before the building cycles can start. Each build is a functionality that is added to the artefact and needs to be completed, tested and implemented before the next build can begin. The iterative life cycle is very easy to implement when using it with the Design Science Research methodology, and allows the following advantages (Shylesh, 2017):Easy to measure development progressSmall iterations allow easy testing and debuggingCan easily add new functionalities and revise the requirementsAfter every iteration/build, a functional product is deliveredGitHub is used for version control throughout the project, and the iterative life cycle will enable anybody to co-create and add functionality to the artefact while having a functioning version available at all times. Description of the development of the artefactDuring the planning phase, it was determined that the goal of the artefact is to determine whether students understand their work with the use of facial recognition. It was also determined that the due date for the artefact to be finished is the 20th of October. A goal and due date were determined, but before the development could begin, the requirements needed to be defined during the requirements phase. The following are the initial requirements of the artefact:Detect a human faceDetermine the expression the person is exhibiting and display the expressionDetermine whether the expression is considered confused, happy or neutralDisplay the number of students that are confusedOne of the advantages of the iterative life cycle is that the requirements can change, and new functionalities can easily be added. Throughout the development, the following additional requirements were also added to the initial requirements list:Protect student privacy by blurring their facesHide the emotion for each student and only display text indicating ‘student’Keep track of general sentiment for a time period the lecturer specifiesWrite the general sentiment for the time period in a comma-separated value file, also known as a ‘.csv’ file. Display the CSV result in a graph for visual representation. After finalizing the goals, due dates and requirements, some design decisions needed to be made. The programming language, code editor, resource manager and technologies needed to be determined. Python was chosen as the programming language, seeing as a lot of libraries can be used in aiding the development of the artefact. It is also a simple and easy language to understand with a lot of advantages. The code editor that was used is Visual Studio Code since is easy to use and has all the functionality required to develop the artefact. Different extensions such as “Co-Pilot” and “GitHub” aided in the development of the artefact. The resource manager that was used is GitHub. GitHub makes version control easy and complements one of the iterative life cycle advantages of keeping track of progression and builds. Seeing as the goal is to use facial expression recognition, a Hikvision 1080p webcam and a general computer were used. It is important to note that not every build would satisfy a requirement in its entirety but could be part of the completion of a specific requirement. After making these decisions, the first build, known as ‘Build 1’, could begin. Build 1: Face DetectionThe goal of the first build was to develop a function that could detect human faces. A lot of research was done and the ‘face_recognition’ and ‘OpenCV’ was used to create a function that will detect human faces. Using a camera, the artefact will open a window showing what the camera sees. The video is divided into frames, and each frame is processed. First, an algorithm will detect whether faces are present in the frame. The HOG facial detection algorithm, which was discussed in Section 2.4.2, will be used seeing it is an algorithm that will work on most computers. When a face is detected, it will draw a square around the face. These functions will be performed using the help of OpenCV, which is a free, open-source library used for computer vision and machine learning and the face_recognition library. It was continuously tested and once the program was successfully able to detect a person and draw a square around each face as shown in Figure 5, ‘Build 1’ was complete and a commit was done to GitHub. Figure 5 - Facial DetectionBuild 2: Expression RecognitionIn order to determine whether the detected person is confused, neutral or happy, it firstly needs to determine the expression that the person expresses, and therefore the requirement of this build was to determine the facial expression that was detected. In order to do this, AI needs to be used. More specifically, a neural network that trains on a dataset of facial expressions, and then creates a model with the correct weights that will predict any newly given images, such as a frame from a camera. Training a model with the correct weights can take weeks or months, and that is not the purpose of this project. The model and weights that were used for this project were obtained from Sefik Serengil, a software engineer from the United Kingdom. These files are part of his GitHub repository under the MIT free-to-use license. The model and weights were downloaded into the artefact dataset file and imported into the code. Figure 6 - Loading model and weightsThe expression detection process is as follows:When a face is detected within a frame, it will convert it into an image and grayscale it. The image is resized to 48 x 48 pixels for faster processing.The image is then converted into a NumPy array, and the shape of the array is expanded into a single row with multiple columns. The pixels will then be divided by 255 to normalise it to a scale of [0, 1].These pixels are then given to a prediction function within the trained model, and that will return a prediction for each of the 7 possible expressions in the array. The NumPy ‘argmax’ function will then be used to return the array index of the highest prediction, and that index will be used to get the corresponding expression from ‘emotion_label’. An ‘OpenCV’ function was used to display the predicted expression under the square that was drawn around the person’s face in ‘Build 1’. It was continuously tested, as seen in Figure 8 and Figure 7, and once the program detected the correct expressions of a person and displayed the associated expression, ‘Build 2’ was done, and committed to GitHub.  		Build 3: Confusion and UI“Build 2” made use of a complex AI model to establish the 7 fundamental emotions that can be encountered in classrooms. However, a requirement of the artefact is to determine whether a person is confused.As explained in Section 2.3.2, anger, disgust, fear and sadness have the same underlying facial characteristics as confusion; thus, if a student is exhibiting any of these emotions, it may be interpreted as confusion. There will be three counters that will count three classifications of ‘emotions’ relevant to the study, namely confused, happy and neural. If a student is detected as fearful, sad, angry or disgusted, the confusion counter will be incremented. If a student is happy, the happy counter will be incremented and if a student is neutral, the neutral counter will be incremented. The counter with the highest value will be referred to as the general sentiment. In each frame of the video, the general sentiment will be displayed, along with the count of the general sentiment in the console and the confusion count will be displayed on the screen as seen in Figure 9.Figure 9 - Confused Counter UIAdditionally, there is a counter that counts the number of faces in the given frame. Figure 10 demonstrates how the confused counter will be divided by the 'totalFaces' counter and multiplied by 100 to obtain the percentage of confused students in a classroom, which will be shown in the console. Figure 10 - Console Confused Percentage“Build 3” was continuously tested to see whether the counter works and displayed the correct results. After the testing phase, it was committed to GitHub. Build 4: PrivacyAlthough privacy was not part of the original requirements, it is necessary to consider the Protection of Personal Information Act No.4 of 2013, when using facial detection and recognition; hence, it was thought essential to obscure the students' faces. This was performed using the GaussianBlur function of OpenCV. It blurs the face inside the detection square from ‘Build 1’ and anything else within it.It was also vital to remove the emotion/expression label beneath a student's detection square to prevent a lecturer from singling out students based on their emotions or expressions presented on screen. As a result, just the word 'student' would be displayed with a student's blurred detection square. Figure 11 depicts how students' privacy will be respected while yet achieving the objective of establishing whether they comprehend the material being presented in class. Unfortunately, one student’s face was not detected due to limitations in the quality of the camera used for testing purposes, and therefore manually removed to ensure their privacy. Figure 11 – PrivacyAfter successfully testing the artefact with fellow students, it was determined that the iteration of the artefact works, and privacy is ensured. ‘Build 4’ was then uploaded onto GitHub Build 5: Keeping track of general sentimentThe main goal of the artefact is to aid the lecturer in determining whether students comprehend the topic under discussion; nevertheless, the lecturer is sometimes required to work on the board or screen and cannot look at the artefact. This is where general sentiment tracking comes into play. When initiating the artefact, lecturers can specify the time period segments in which they want to monitor the general sentiment based on the topic(s) to be discussed. This is done with a graphical user interface, also known as GUI, with the use of the ‘Tkinter’ python package. Figure 12 - Time Period GUIThe following is how the artefact keeps track of the general sentiment within a specified time period: Three counters called TimeConfused, TimeHappy and TimeNeutral will be initialized. Retrieve the ‘presentDate’ using the DateTime functionObtain the ‘unix_timestamp’ using the DateTime function and the present dateObtain the ‘newUnixTime’ by rounding the ‘unix_timestamp’Obtain the ‘initialTime’, which is the same as the ‘newUnixTime’, but outside the while loop.Initialise a variable called ‘seconds’ with the time specified by a lecturerThe ‘for’ loop continues to execute and increments the TimeConfused, TimeHappy and TimeNeutral depending on the emotion classified by ‘Build 3’. The ‘if’ statement will keep track of the time. If the ‘newUnixTime’ is equal to the ‘initialTime’ plus ‘seconds’, then the ‘initialTime’ is set to the ‘newUnixTime’. Simply put, the if statement continuously checks whether five seconds passed, and when five seconds passed the following happens: The ‘generalEmotion’ will be set to either Confused, Happy, or Neural depending on the counters that were incremented, and the variables will then be reset before the next time period begins. The 'generalEmotion', which represents the period's general sentiment, will subsequently be presented alongside the counters in the console. Figure 13 - The console after a specified time periodAfter testing the sentiment tracking function, it was determined that the artefact keeps track of the general sentiment for the time period specified with accurate results, and thereafter committed to GitHub. Build 6: Write general sentiment to CSV fileAfter ‘Build 5’, the general sentiment for the time period is displayed in the console, but the lecturer may need it for future reference to improve classes. Therefore, the General sentiment will be written to an array called ‘genEmotionArr’ in the ‘if’ statement of ‘Build 5’, along with the date and time. After the artefact is terminated, the array values will then be written to a CSV file. If the CSV file already exists, it will append the new date, time and general emotion, otherwise the file will be created, and the data will be written. Figure 14 - CSV FileThe artefact was tested, and after the termination of the artefact, a CSV file was added to the folder, with the data received from the artefact. After comparing the console values and time stamps, it was determined that this function does work. After the successful testing, this build was committed to GitHub. Build 7: Read CSV and show results visuallyHaving the data easily accessible to analyse classes is already highly useful for lecturers, but sometimes a visual representation of the findings is preferable. Therefore, a function was added to read the data from the CSV file and then plot it using the mathplotlib and CSV library.When examining Figure 15, it is much simpler to understand how a class went and when students did not comprehend the discussed work. This pop-up graph enables you to zoom in and save the graphically presented results.After ‘Build 6’, the function of ‘Build 7’ was tested, and the results were plotted on a graph after the termination of the artefact. This concluded not only ‘Build 7’, but the final artefact. ‘Build 7’ was committed to GitHub. SummaryThe iterative life cycle assisted in achieving the goal by developing the artefact in small increments known as builds. It made planning, defining requirements, designing, developing, testing, and deploying the artefact extremely simple and manageable. Each of the seven builds contributed to the design, development, and deployment of the artefact to achieve the objective of creating a method for lecturers to determine if students comprehend the topics discussed in class. The final build of the artefact is uploaded to the GitHub repository. The following is a brief explanation of how the seven builds come together to provide the final artefact that helps address the specified problem.The artefact utilizes a camera to collect data from the entire classroom. Using the OpenCV library, each face within the video frame will be detected and a square will be drawn around it. OpenCV's GaussianBlur function will be used to blur the faces of individuals for privacy purposes. Each student's facial expression will be determined by the artefact, which will then be used to categorize the student as confused, happy, or neutral. All confused students will be tallied and displayed in bold print at the top of the screen, allowing the lecturer to obtain real-time feedback regarding the number of confused students at any given time. The console will indicate the class's general sentiment as well as the percentage of the class that is currently confused. When initializing the artefact, a Windows form will prompt the lecturer to define the duration throughout which the artefact should monitor the general sentiment. This time period's general sentiment will be written to a CSV file and displayed in the console. After the artefact has been terminated, the data from the CSV file will be read and visualized using a graph. Chapter 4 – ResultsThis heading won’t printEvaluationAs stated in Chapter 1, lecturers need a way in large lecture halls to determine whether students understand the topics that are being discussed, seeing as current CFU techniques are mostly used for smaller classrooms. The aim was to create a system that will be helpful to lecturers, by providing them with the ability to “read the room” when it comes to teaching. Certain objectives needed to be met as mentioned in Section 1.5.2, in order for the artefact development to be a success. The final objective was to evaluate the artefact and see whether it could identify the common emotions linked to understanding. The artefact went above and beyond that objective. The artefact is a prototype that was thoroughly tested in a test environment, with willing participants. It was also evaluated at an Honours project day and received overwhelmingly positive feedback from lecturers and industry professionals. The artefact was successful in doing the following:Detect all the faces in a frameThe artefact used different tools such as the face_recognition library, OpenCV library and the Histogram of Oriented Gradient algorithm to detect the faces and draw squares around them. Determine the facial expressions of each individual studentThe artefact used a facial expression model and weights to accurately determine the facial expression of each individual student. Consequently, successfully determining whether the student is expressing either of the following expressions: Anger, disgust, fear, happiness, sadness, surprise, and neutral. Classify students as either confused, happy or neutralThe artefact classified whether students are either confused, happy or neutral using the facial expressions determined. Anger, disgust, fear and sadness have some of the same underlying facial characteristics as confusion and could thus be used to classify the students. Display the general sentiment for any given timeThe artefact counted all the faces that are classified as confused and displayed the number of confused students at the top of the screen. The general sentiment for that moment and the percentage of the class that is confused are also displayed in the console. Keep track of the general sentiment for a given timeThe lecturer can specify a time that the artefact should keep track of the general sentiment. This is done by using Unix time. It successfully captures the general sentiment of the classroom for a specified time period, displays it in the console and writes it to an array. Save the general sentiment for later analysisAfter the artefact is terminated, the general sentiment data is written to a CSV file that the lecturer can use for later analysis. Display the data on a graphThe data contained within the CSV file is read and displayed on a graph to provide a graphical representation of the data. This is accomplished with the matplotlib library. The graph can be saved or modified at the lecturer's discretion. In short, the artefact displays the large lecture hall with students’ faces blurred out, it displays the number of confused students at any given time. It keeps track of the general sentiment for a specified time period and writes the data to a CSV file. After the artefact is terminated, the data is visually represented on a graph. This helps the lecturers to have a real-time understanding of whether the class is comprehending the topics being discussed, as well as storing that data for later analysis, which the lecturer can use to improve lectures or provide additional resources. The artefact successfully allows lecturers to determine the general sentiment of large classrooms, which would otherwise not be possible. It consequently achieved the aim of creating an artefact that will assist lecturers to “read the room” in large classrooms. The artefact is a very useful tool for lecturers and should be researched and developed further.LimitationsThe following limitations were experienced during the project:Difficulty picking up the Neutral facial expression because of a phenomenon where a Neutral facial expression can be picked up as angry or sad. The camera used was a webcam, and therefore could not determine faces further away from the camera. RecommendationsThe following are recommendations for any future research pertaining to this project:Develop a model that uses a dataset specifically trained with the confusion emotion or expression for a more accurate reading of confusionUse a high-resolution camera, rather than a webcamConclusionThis project was a huge success and showed it is possible to create a system that assists lecturers in large lecture halls. The project had a few limitations such as the difficulty classifying some people with neutral facial expressions, and the technology such as the webcam that was used to capture the classroom and test environment. This project's artefact is a proof-of-concept to demonstrate that it is possible to design a program that will assist instructors in determining whether or not students in large lecture halls comprehend the topics being discussed. This study should serve as a basis for future research that attempts to construct a full-scale version.Chapter 5 – RefLECTIONThis heading will not printWhat did I learn while completing this projectThe completion of a project is not something that can be accomplished in a week, nor can it be rushed. Various choices had to be taken, such as what issue to address and what objectives to pursue in order to address the problem. What paradigms, methodologies, and life cycles will be utilized? All of these choices were crucial to the creation of a successful artefact.It handles the issue of assisting lecturers in large lecture halls, which is one of the many benefits of the artefact. It enables lecturers to obtain both real-time feedback and data that can be utilized to analyse the classes. The project plan was an advantage of the procedures. It enabled me to keep on schedule and deliver the required documentation as necessary.Limitations like as technology and the availability of confused datasets constituted downsides of the artefact. For the procedures, it was difficult to determine which life cycle best suited the development of the artefact.If I had to redo the project, I would use a dashboard to present and analyse the captured data in a more effective manner. I would attempt to integrate it with a Kafka database to enable data streaming in real-time to a dashboard.  I would also try to develop a new dataset that incorporates the confused emotion, to build an even more accurate model for predicting the expressions. Did I achieve the objectives that were set for the project?There were seven objectives that were set out in Chapter 1, which needed to be completed in order for this project to be a success and for the artefact to address the research problem. The following are the objectives that needed to be met: Research current methods to determine if students understand their workAnalyse facial expressions and how those emotions are displayedExploring facial detection techniques and how it worksSurvey lecturers and students to get a better understanding of what would be beneficial to themComparison between different types of facial detection and expression programs Developing an artefact using the above-mentioned programs Evaluating if the proposed artefact will be able to identify common emotions linked to understanding All the above-mentioned objectives were met, and consequently, a successful artefact was developed. How successful was I in managing the project and meeting target dates?  Although it was a year project, time management was crucial in successfully completing the project. It may seem like a lot of time, but most students lost track of time. Putting in the necessary time each day, weekends and recesses were needed to meet all the target dates set out for us. You need to decide when you’ll be working on that project and stick to the planning you made. It wasn’t always easy and there definitely were some days or even weeks that little or no progress was made. These times were mostly during exams and semester weeks. I then had to work some late nights at my apartment, or the labs in times of loadshedding to catch up, to ensure that I will reach the deadlines. Overall, I believe I was successful in managing the project and met all the target dates. ConclusionThroughout the duration of this project and the creation of an artefact, I gained a great deal of knowledge. It was ultimately worthwhile to design an artefact that would aid lecturers in large lecture rooms, despite the arduous effort and late nights required. Throughout this undertaking, my decision-making, time management, and willpower increased. All aims and objectives were accomplished, and I received excellent feedback from lecturers and industry professionals.Overall, the project was a resounding success, since the goal of developing an artefact that will assist lecturers in determining whether students in a large lecture hall understand the topics was accomplished. Working with my supervisor to produce this artefact has helped me realize that I want to continue my studies at the university, conducting other research and developing additional artefacts that will better the lives of others.BibliographyAlshamrani, M.  2019.  An investigation of the advantages and disadvantages of online education.  Auckland University of Technology. - Andersson, A. 2008. Assessment: A continuous process that takes place at the end? Sweden: School of Education andCommunication.Angelo, T. A. and Cross, K. P.  1993.  Classroom assessment techniques - a handbook for college teachers. 2 ed.  San Francisco: Jossey-Bass Wiley.Anil, J. and Suresh, L. P.  2016.  Literature survey on face and face expression recognition. (In 2016 International Conference on Circuit, Power and Computing Technologies (ICCPCT): IEEE, p. 1-6).Apuke, O. D.  2017.  Quantitative research methods: A synopsis approach.  Kuwait Chapter of Arabian Journal of Business and Management Review, 33(5471):1-8.Arguel, A., Lockyer, L., Kennedy, G., Lodge, J. M. and Pachman, M.  2019.  Seeking optimal confusion: A review on epistemic emotion management in interactive digital learning environments.  Interactive Learning Environments, 27(2):200-210.Arsenovic, M., Sladojevic, S., Anderla, A. and Stefanovic, D.  2017.  Facetime—deep learning based face recognition attendance system. (In 2017 IEEE 15th International symposium on intelligent systems and informatics (SISY): IEEE, p. 000053-000058).Balla, P. B. and Jadhao, K.  2018.  Iot based facial recognition security system. (In 2018 international conference on smart city and emerging technology (ICSCET): IEEE, p. 1-4).Bernstein, C.  2020.  Face detection. . 2022.Bhat, B. and Bhat, G.  2019.  Formative and summative evaluation techniques for improvement of learning process.  European Journal of Business & Social Sciences, 7(5):776-785.Böheim, R.  2020.  The behavior of student hand-raising as an observable indicator of student engagement: Exploring the role of hand-raising in classroom learning and its relation to student motivation.  Universität München. - Butt, M. N. and Iqbal, M.  2011.  Teachers' perception regarding facial expressions as an effective teaching tool.  Contemporary Issues in Education Research, 4(2):11-14.Cherney, K.  2021.  All about alexithymia, or difficulty recognizing feelings.  D’Mello, S. and Graesser, A.  2012.  Dynamics of affective states during complex learning.  Learning and Instruction, 22(2):145-157.D’Mello, S. K. and Graesser, A. C.  2014.  Confusion. (In  International handbook of emotions in education: Routledge.  p. 299-320).Delac, K. and Grgic, M.  2004.  A survey of biometric recognition methods. (In Proceedings. Elmar-2004. 46th International Symposium on Electronics in Marine: IEEE, p. 184-193).Dilawar, M. M. and Siddiqui, S.  2016.  Face label graph matching for character identification.  INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL, 1(1).Dimberg, U., Thunberg, M. and Elmehed, K.  2000.  Unconscious facial reactions to emotional facial expressions.  Psychological science, 11(1):86-89.Dixson, D. D. and Worrell, F. C.  2016.  Formative and summative assessment in the classroom.  Theory into practice, 55(2):153-159.Dresch, A., Lacerda, D. P. and Antunes, J. A. V.  2015.  Design science research. (In  Design science research: Springer.  p. V).Dufour, C.  2021.  The new teacher's guide to overcoming common challenges. Ticker: The academic business librarianship review  New York: Routledge.Ekman, P. and Keltner, D.  1997.  Universal facial expressions of emotion.  Segerstrale U, P. Molnar P, eds. Nonverbal communication: Where nature meets culture, 27:46.Finley, T.  2014.  Dipsticks efficient ways to check for understanding.  Fisher, D. and Frey, N.  2014.  Checking for understanding: Formative assessment techniques for your classroom. 2 ed.: Association for Supervision and Curriculum Development.Gargaro, D.  2022.  The pros and cons of facial recognition technology.  Garrison, C. and Ehringhaus, M.  2007.  Formative and summative assessments in the classroom, (In, Louisville: NMSA).Garvie, C. and Frankle, J.  2016.  Facial-recognition software might have a racial bias problem.  The Atlantic, 7.Geng, C. and Jiang, X.  2009.  Face recognition using sift features. (In 2009 16th IEEE international conference on image processing (ICIP): IEEE, p. 3313-3316).Government.  1996.  The constitution of the republic of south africa.  South Africa: South African Government, p. 11.Government.  2019.  Protection of personal information act.  Date of access: 2022/04/10 Gupta, S., Thakur, K. and Kumar, M.  2021.  2d-human face recognition using sift and surf descriptors of face’s feature regions.  The Visual Computer, 37(3):447-456.Heale, R. and Twycross, A.  2015.  Validity and reliability in quantitative studies.  Evidence-based nursing, 18(3):66-67.Hunt, E. and Pellegrino, J. W.  2002.  Issues, examples, and challenges in formative assessment.  New directions for Teaching and Learning, 2002(89):73-85.Institute, A. L.  2019.  Beyond face value: Public attitudes to facial recognition technology.Ishaq, K., Rana, A. M. K. and Zin, N. A. M.  2020.  Exploring summative assessment and effects: Primary to higher education.  Bulletin of Education and Research, 42(3):23-50.Jirava, P.  2004.  System development life cycle.  Scientific papers of the University of Pardubice. Series D Faculty of Economics and Administration. 9 (2004).Kar, N., Debbarma, M. K., Saha, A. and Pal, D. R.  2012.  Study of implementing automated attendance system using face recognition technique.  International Journal of computer and communication engineering, 1(2):100.Kettner, J. L.  2015.  Clickers versus hand-raising in the physics college classroom: Do clickers make a difference?Khan, M., Chakraborty, S., Astya, R. and Khepra, S.  2019.  Face detection and recognition using opencv. (In 2019 International Conference on Computing, Communication, and Intelligent Systems (ICCCIS): IEEE, p. 116-119).Kivunja, C. and Kuyini, A. B.  2017.  Understanding and applying research paradigms in educational contexts.  International Journal of higher education, 6(5):26-41.Kohler, C. G., Turner, T., Stolar, N. M., Bilker, W. B., Brensinger, C. M., Gur, R. E. and Gur, R. C.  2004.  Differences in facial expressions of four universal emotions.  Psychiatry research, 128(3):235-244.Kopf, S., Scheele, N. and Effelsberg, W.  2005.  The interactive lecture: Teaching and learning technologies for large classrooms.Korshunov, P. and Marcel, S.  2018.  Deepfakes: A new threat to face recognition? Assessment and detection.  arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.08685.Kuhn, T. S.  1970.  The structure of scientific revolutions. Chicago University of Chicago Press.Kumar, A., Kaur, A. and Kumar, M.  2019.  Face detection techniques: A review.  Artificial Intelligence Review, 52(2):927-948.Lamanauskas, V. and Makarskaite-Petkeviciene, R.  2021.  Distance lectures in university studies: Advantages, disadvantages, improvement.  Contemporary Educational Technology, 13(3).Li, T., Hou, W., Lyu, F., Lei, Y. and Xiao, C.  2016.  Face detection based on depth information using hog-lbp. (In 2016 Sixth International Conference on Instrumentation & Measurement, Computer, Communication and Control (IMCCC): IEEE, p. 779-784).Libby, C. and Ehrenfeld, J.  2021.  Facial recognition technology in 2021: Masks, bias, and the future of healthcare.  Journal of Medical Systems, 45(4):1-3.Lindeberg, T.  2012.  Scale invariant feature transform.McTighe, J.  2021.  8 quick checks for understanding.  Mohammad, S. M.  2020.  Facial recognition technology.  Available at SSRN 3622882.Nagpal, G. S., Singh, G., Singh, J. and Yadav, N.  2018.  Facial detection and recognition using opencv on raspberry pi zero. (In 2018 International Conference on Advances in Computing, Communication Control and Networking (ICACCCN): IEEE, p. 945-950).Okesola, O. J., Adebiyi, A. A., Owoade, A. A., Adeaga, O., Adeyemi, O. and Odun-Ayo, I.  2020.  Software requirement in iterative sdlc model. (In Computer Science On-line Conference: Springer, p. 26-34).Omoyiola, B. O.  2018.  Overview of biometric and facial recognition techniques.  IOSR journal of computer engineering (IOSRJCE), 20(4):1-5.Owayjan, M., Dergham, A., Haber, G., Fakih, N., Hamoush, A. and Abdo, E.  2015.  Face recognition security system.  New trends in networking, computing, E-learning, systems sciences, and engineering:343-348.Pang, Y., Yuan, Y., Li, X. and Pan, J.  2011.  Efficient hog human detection.  Signal processing, 91(4):773-781.Park, Y. S., Konge, L. and Artino, A. R.  2020.  The positivism paradigm of research.  Academic Medicine, 95(5):690-694.Paudel, P.  2021.  Online education: Benefits, challenges and strategies during and after covid-19 in higher education.  International Journal on Studies in Education, 3(2):70-85.Peffers, K., Tuunanen, T., Rothenberger, M. A. and Chatterjee, S.  2007.  A design science research methodology for information systems research.  Journal of management information systems, 24(3):45-77.Ping, S. T. Y., Weng, C. H. and Lau, B.  2003.  Face detection through template matching and color segmentation.  Nevim: Nevim, 89.Pochedly, J. T., Widen, S. C. and Russell, J. A.  2012.  What emotion does the “facial expression of disgust” express?  Emotion, 12(6):1315.Price, J. H. and Murnan, J.  2004.  Research limitations and the necessity of reporting them.  American journal of health education, 35(2):66.Qu, W. and Zhang, C.  2013.  The analysis of summative assessment and formative assessment and their roles in college english assessment system.  Journal of Language Teaching and Research, 4(2):335.Quinzio-Zafran, A. M. and Wilkins, E. A.  2020.  The new teacher's guide to overcoming common challenges: Curated advice from award-winning teachers. Routledge.Reed, L. I., Zeglen, K. N. and Schmidt, K. L.  2012.  Facial expressions as honest signals of cooperative intent in a one-shot anonymous prisoner's dilemma game.  Evolution and Human Behavior, 33(3):200-209.Rehman, A. A. and Alharthi, K.  2016.  An introduction to research paradigms.  International Journal of Educational Investigations, 3(8):51-59.Revina, I. M. and Emmanuel, W. S.  2021.  A survey on human face expression recognition techniques.  Journal of King Saud University-Computer and Information Sciences, 33(6):619-628.Russel, S. J. and Norvig, P.  2021.  Artificial intelligence - a modern approach. Pearson Fourth ed.  New Jersey: Pearson Education Inc.Sathik, M. and Jonathan, S. G.  2013.  Effect of facial expressions on student’s comprehension recognition in virtual educational environments.  SpringerPlus, 2(1):1-9.Shylesh, S.  2017.  A study of software development life cycle process models. (In National Conference on Reinventing Opportunities in Management, IT, and Social Sciences, p. 534-541).Silvia, P.  2013.  Knowledge emotions: Feelings that foster learning, exploring, and reflecting.  Date of access: 2022/10/01 2022.Smith, A.  2019.  More than half of us adults trust law enforcement to use facial recognition responsibly.  Pew Research Center, 5.Sousa, F. J.  2010.  Metatheories in research: Positivism, postmodernism, and critical realism. (In  Organizational culture, business-to-business relationships, and interfirm networks: Emerald Group Publishing Limited.).Sporer, J. (2022) 'Is summative or formative more important?'. Available at: .Sukamolson, S.  2007.  Fundamentals of quantitative research.  Language Institute Chulalongkorn University, 1(3):1-20.Sürücü, L. and Maslakçi, A.  2020.  Validity and reliability in quantitative research.  Business & Management Studies: An International Journal, 8(3):2694-2726.Taras, M.  2008.  Summative and formative assessment: Perceptions and realities.  Active learning in higher education, 9(2):172-192.Taylor, G. J.  2000.  Recent developments in alexithymia theory and research.  The Canadian Journal of Psychiatry, 45(2):134-142.Tosuncuoglu, I.  2018.  Importance of assessment in elt.  Journal of Education and Training Studies, 6(9):163-167.üge Çarıkçı, M. and Özen, F.  2012.  A face recognition system based on eigenfaces method.  Procedia Technology, 1:118-123.Vazquez-Fernandez, E. and Gonzalez-Jimenez, D.  2016.  Face recognition for authentication on mobile devices.  Image and Vision Computing, 55:31-33.Woodward Jr, J. D., Horn, C., Gatune, J. and Thomas, A.  2003.  Biometrics: A look at facial recognition. (In. Santa Monica: RAND CORP SANTA MONICA CA.).Wright, E.  2018.  The future of facial recognition is not fully known: Developing privacy and security regulatory mechanisms for facial recognition in the retail sector.  Fordham Intell. Prop. Media & Ent. LJ, 29:611.Yang, Z. and Hirschberg, J.  2018.  Predicting arousal and valence from waveforms and spectrograms using deep neural networks. (In Interspeech, p. 3092-3096).Youssif, A. A. and Asker, W. A.  2011.  Automatic facial expression recognition system based on geometric and appearance features.  Computer and Information Science, 4(2):115.Yu, H. and Liu, H.  2015.  Combining appearance and geometric features for facial expression recognition. (In Sixth International Conference on Graphic and Image Processing (ICGIP 2014): SPIE, p. 40-45).APPENDIX A – Questionnaire A survey was done among Bachelor of Science in Information Technology students from the North-West University in order to get a better understanding of whether the proposed system would be useful. The survey link was uploaded to Efundi which is a portal and website students, and the university uses. The survey was non-compulsory, and the students were also informed thereof. The following Table 7 shows the close-ended questions asked and the survey results.Table 7 - Close-ended Survey QuestionsThere was also one that gave an option to provide their own answers shown in Table 8. The first four answers were given, and the final three answers were entered by the students. Table 8 - Survey QuestionAPPENDIX B – Ethics FormITRI 671 Research ethics form: Honours project  Name: Hano Strydom Title of project: Facial Recognition as a tool to determine if students understand a topic Supervisor: Mnr. Henri van Rensburg Starting and end dates of project:  24/02/2022 – 30/10/2022      6. Describe what methods you will use to get permission from participants in your study.  Seeing the survey is entirely optional, and the users first needs to answer 2 questions before they are allowed to answer the survey: Are you aware this Survey is optional and not compulsory?Do you give consent for me, Hano Strydom, to use the information gathered as part of my research?For the software I will ask participants permission, and if they do not accept, they do not have to participate.        I declare that the information contained in this form is accurate. I have attempted to identify the risks that may arise in conducting this research and acknowledge my obligations and the rights of the participants. I confirm that the research will be conducted in line with all University, legal and ethical standards.  Name of student: Hano Strydom Signature:  Date: 2022/08/25  Name of study leader: Mnr. Henri van Rensburg Signature: Date:  2022/08/25
